Here's the big challenge of life. You can have more than you've got because you can become more than you are. That's the challenge. And of course the other side of the coin reads, unless you change how you are, you'll always have what you got. I have found in my experience that income does not far exceed personal development. Now sometimes income takes a lucky jump, but sure enough unless you grow out where it is, it'll usually come back where you are. Life has strange ways. If somebody hands you a million dollars, best you become a millionaire quickly so you get to keep the money. Otherwise, sure enough, it'll disappear. Somebody once said, if you took all the money in the world, divided it up equally among everybody, it would soon all be back in the same pockets. Incredible. Success is something you attract, not something you pursue. Success is looking for a good place to stay. So instead of going after it, you work on yourself, personal development. See, the major question to ask on the job is not, what are you getting? The major question to ask on the job is, what are you becoming? The big question is not, what am I getting paid here? The big question is, what am I becoming here? 

Because true happiness is not contained in what you get. Happiness is contained in what you become. So that's our major subject for tonight, personal development. Of all the assignments Mr. Shouf gave me at age 25, this was probably the most difficult. In fact, I'm still working on this one. I think it's an unending challenge to see what you can become. The next subject is called basic laws. 

And it's good to study the basics. And I call these basics primarily because they come from the Bible. Now I'm not a theologian or a minister, and that'll be apparent. But Mr. Shouf taught me that the Bible was a good textbook for ideas and stories and success equations, how to live the better life. I found out that was true. He also taught me that the Bible is as practical as it is spiritual, and I found out that's true. If you look at your bank account and your income and you're not happy, there are several places in the Bible to check to see what the heck's wrong so you can make the changes. And we're going to cover some of those tonight called basics. Okay, the next subject is my favorite, setting goals. 

Mr. Shouf taught me how to set goals. What a favor that was. One morning at breakfast, shortly after I met him, he said, Jim, let me see your current list of goals and let's go over them and talk about them. He said, maybe that's the best way I can help you get a better direction started. And I said, I don't have a list. He said, well, is it out in the car or home somewhere? I said, no, sir. I don't have a list anywhere. He said, well, young man, that's where we got to start. He said, I can tell you right now if you don't have a list of your goals with you, he said, I can guess your bank balance within a few hundred dollars. Which he did. And that got my attention. I said, you mean my bank balance would change if I had a list of goals? He said, drastically. 

That day I became a willing student how to set goals. And sure enough, learning how to set goals changed my life. And I often wondered why no one had ever taught me how to set goals up until age 25. 

I went to high school, but if they offered it, I missed it. I went to college for a year, never heard it. I worked for Sears. Really. And to my knowledge, Sears never taught it. How to set goals. So here I am, age 25, married, my family starting, I've been to college, I'm working, and I still don't know how to set goals. But fortunately, when I was 25, I met the man who taught me how. And it revolutionized my whole life. Economically, socially, personally. It's incredible. So I want to share with you tonight what Mr. Shove shared with me how to set goals. It can be a life changer. Okay. The next subject is the negative part of the seminar. Life is part negative, so we got to talk about the negative. And this subject is called diseases of attitude. 

Diseases of attitude. There's a lot of things that can wreck your chances to do well. We live in a rather dangerous world, so you've got to be not only wise, you've got to be careful. Now attitude diseases are just as bad as physical diseases, right? High blood pressure, heart trouble. I mean a lot of things will ace your chances to do well. So you've got to be careful. And attitude diseases are deadly. I mean they'll destroy all the good things you start. Okay. So we'll go through those attitude diseases. How to spot them, how to look for them, what they are, and the cure. And I'm a pro on these because I've had them all. So I can give you excellent advice on these. Now the last subject we're going to consider tonight is called the day that turns your life around. 

The day that turns your life around. And under this subject we're going to talk about the emotions that can change your life. Human beings are emotional creatures. And emotions are powerful for life change. 

Now of course emotions are so powerful they can go either way on you. Emotions can either build or destroy. So you really have to employ emotions properly. We call civilization the intelligent management of human emotions. If you can intelligently apply your emotions in the right direction, no telling what can happen. Could turn your life around one day would be sufficient. So we'll talk about those. Okay. Now that's a lot to cover in one evening. But we'll keep at it here. And see if we can't get it all done. 

I'd like to have you now jot down the theme of the seminar. Every seminar should have a theme I guess. We've got one. It's on some of our literature if you happen to notice it. But if you didn't for your notes here it is. The theme of the seminar. Goes like this. The major key to your better future is you. 

That's the theme of our seminar tonight. The major key to your better future is you. And I'd like to have you underline two words just to give it some added punch. Underline the word major and the word you. 

So that it reads the major key to your better future is you. Now my first suggestion is transfer this to a card or something where you can put it up where you can see it every day. Preferably put it up where you can see it at the beginning of the day. Before you go off to put the day together. This is a good phrase just to glance at to keep in mind as you're putting the day together. It's called the silent seminar. If you'll just let this talk to you during the day. I found it to be tremendously helpful. The major key to your better future is you. 

For a big share of my life now I didn't have this one quite figured out. Among a lot of things I didn't have quite figured out. Many things used to puzzle me back in those early days. I used to wonder why two people could work for the same company. One make twice as much money. Now see that used to puzzle me. And maybe they were the same age. Graduated from the same school. Live in the same community. Work for the same company. With the same products and the same services. They've got the same traffic. The same problems. And one makes a thousand a month. The other one makes two thousand a month. Now that was my puzzling question. Why would this long list be the same and the money twice as much? I asked what's the difference between a long list and a long list? I mean a thousand a month and two thousand a month. And I don't mean a thousand a month right? I could figure that out. But what makes the difference? Why would one person do twice as well? Three times as well? Speaking economically. Now I know there's more than one way to do well. I understand that. But in this little narrow area called compensation. What's the difference? Well back then with my faulty thinking I'm trying to reason it out. I thought well maybe time makes some of the difference right? Maybe because they have more time. I used to say Harold ought to be able to do well. He's got a lot of time. If I had all of Harold's time I could do well. Now that's got to be dumb right? Number one you can't get somebody else's time. A guy says to me one time. He says you know if I had some extra time I could make some extra money. I said then forget it. There isn't any extra time. Hey when the clock strikes 12 midnight that about wraps it up right? I mean you can look around the gongs here for a little more but it's over. You say to the guy what are you doing? He says I'm looking for extra time. See they'll come and take you away right? There isn't any more time. 

Now if you can't get more time, which you can't. What could you get more of that would make a difference in economic results? And here's the key word. Make it a part of your notes. We're going to consider it tonight. The word is value. 

And I have a little phrase for your notes. Value makes the difference in results. Value makes the difference. 

You can't get more time but you can create more value. 

Now here's the first lesson of economics. Everybody should learn it from the time they're old enough to understand what a dollar means. How to earn one, how to get one, how to keep one, what to do with it. First lesson of economics. We primarily get paid for value. That's lesson one. Bringing value to the marketplace. That's how you get paid. You don't get paid for the time. I know it takes time to bring value to the marketplace. But you get paid for the value not the time. 

Now since that's true here's one of the key questions of the evening. Is it possible to become twice as valuable at the marketplace and make twice as much money in the same time? 

Could you become three times as valuable? 

Make three times as much money in the same time. Is that possible? The answer is yes, if. 

And it's always if, right? Life is known as the big if. 

Harry Truman once said, life is iffy. How true? And here's the big if we're going to consider it tonight. It's possible to do much better at the marketplace if you go to work primarily on yourself. 

And that's the theme of our seminar tonight. Learning to work primarily on yourself. People have asked me for the last 24 years, how do you develop an above average income? And the answer is become an above average person. 

Develop an above average handshake. Some people want to be successful, they don't even work on their handshake. As easy as that would be to start on. They let it slide, they don't understand. Develop an above average smile. Develop an above average excitement. Develop an above average interest in other people. Develop an above average intensity to win. See, that'll change everything. 

Probably one of the most frustrating experiences in life is looking for an above average job with above average pay without becoming an above average person. 

It's called frustration. And Mr. Shouf gave me probably the greatest clue he gave me when I first met him. He said, Jim, if you want to be wealthy and happy the rest of your life, just learn this lesson well. 

He said, learn to work harder on yourself. Learn to work harder on yourself. Learn to work harder on yourself. Learn to work harder on yourself. Learn to work harder on yourself than you do on your job. 