Then Mr. Shouf gave me probably one of the most important clues among so many things he taught me, but this was in those early days. Mr. Shouf was very kind, but he was also very abrupt, and he had these interesting questions to ask. I'm giving him a little rundown one day on how things hadn't worked out for me. He said, Mr. Owen, I've got the answer for you if you will listen carefully. And listen carefully, I did, that day and for the next five years. If somebody's wealthy and happy, you've got to listen. He said, Jim, I've only known you a short time, but he said, it's already my honest opinion that for things to change for you, you've got to change. That wasn't quite the answer I was looking for. But that's the answer he gave me, and I pass it along to you on this warm summer evening in Anaheim, California, 1981. For things to change for you, you've got to change. Otherwise, it isn't going to change. Before I met Mr. Shouf, I used to say, I sure hope things will change. Right? That seemed to be my only hope. If it isn't going to change, I'm in serious trouble. And then I discovered, it isn't going to change, so I'm in serious trouble. 

See, I can tell you what the 80s are going to be like. You have dropped into the right place. I did a seminar one time for Standard Oil, executives and management, in Honolulu. And we're having a conference one day on this big conference table. And one of them said to me, Mr. Rohn, you know some fairly important people halfway around the world. What do you think the 80s are going to be like? I said, gentlemen, I do know the right people. I can tell you. So they all listened very carefully. And I said, gentlemen, based on my wide experience, I can really honestly say to you, in my opinion, in the 80s, it's going to be about like it's always been. 

Aren't you glad you came? That's inside. I don't pass that around just everywhere. Now, of course, I said that to make a point, but I also said it because it's accurate. It's going to be about like it's always been. It isn't going to change. The tide comes in and then what? It goes out for six and a half thousand years that we know of, recorded history, and probably long before that. So it is not going to change. It gets light and then what? It turns dark. Six and a half thousand years. See, it's not likely to change. And we're not to be startled by that. If the sun goes down, the guy says, what's happened? What's happened? It hasn't been here long, I guess, right? It always goes down about this time. The guy says, well, I don't like that arrangement. Well, you got to talk to somebody besides me, right? It gets light, then it turns dark. In rotation, the next season after fall is what? Winter. Winter. Pray tell how often does winter fall or fall? Every year regularly for the last six and a half thousand that we know of. See, it is not going to change. Now some winters are long and some are short and some are hard and some are easy, but they always come right after falls. It isn't going to change. Sometimes you can figure it out, sometimes there's no way to figure it out. Sometimes it goes well, sometimes it gets in a knot. Sometimes it sails along, sometimes it gets in reverse. See, that's not going to change. The last six thousand years reads like this, opportunity mixed with difficulty. That's how it reads. It isn't going to change. The man says, well, if it isn't going to change, how will my life ever change? Answer, when you change. And whether I'm talking to high school kids or business executives, my message is always the same and it goes like this. The only way it gets better for you is when you get better. Let me give you the four major lessons in life to learn. Here's four majors. It's good to study the majors. In our weekend seminar we teach, some people don't do well because they major in minor things. You've got to be on the lookout. At the end of every weekend, of every month, you've got to check, make sure you're not spending major time on minor things. We go through that whole series. Majors and minors. Now let me give you two phrases before we get to the four majors. This will set it up and you'll see where I'm going. Two key phrases for your notes. Here's the first one. Life and business is like the changing seasons. That's the first phrase. Life and business is like the changing seasons. One of the best ways to describe life, it's like the seasons. Frank Sinatra sings, life is like the seasons. Now here's the second phrase. Very important. You cannot change the seasons, but you can change yourself. You can't change the seasons, but you can change yourself. And see that's how life gets better for you. Not by chance, but by change. Now here's the four major lessons in life to learn. I've got my first book finished, came out a couple of weeks ago. This is in it. The four major lessons in life to learn. Here they are. Number one, learn how to handle the winters. That's lesson one. They come right after falls with regularity. Some are long and some are short and some are hard and some are easy, but they keep coming. You must learn to handle the nights. They come right after days. You must learn to handle difficulty. It comes right after opportunity. You must learn to handle recessions. They always follow progressions for the last 6,000. See it isn't going to change. The lesson you must learn is how to handle it. And there's all kinds of winters, right? The winter when you can't figure it out. The winter when it all goes smash. The winter when it turns belly up. The winter when it won't work, when you've run out of money and you've got a broken heart. See those are winter times. There's all kinds. Economic winters, social winters, personal winters. When your heart is smashed in a thousand pieces and the nights are unusually long, your prayers seem to go no higher than your head. It's winter time. Barbara Streisand sings, it used to be so natural to talk about forever but used to be's don't count anymore. They just lay on the floor until we sweep them away. You don't sing me love songs and you don't say you need me and you don't bring me flowers anymore. A song of winter. But see the disappointments come. Those are normal. That's part of life. But the question is how do you handle it? How do you handle the coming winters and the disappointments and the down times? Well you can't get rid of January by tearing it off the calendar. But here's what you can do. You can get stronger, you can get wiser and you can get better. The winters won't change but you can. And that's how life changes for you. See before I understood when it was winter I used to wish it was summer. I didn't understand. When it was hard I used to wish it was easy. I didn't know. And then Mr. Shouf gave me a part of his very unique philosophy when he said, don't wish it was easier, wish you were better. See that triggered my whole life change. Don't wish for less problems, wish for more skills. Don't wish for less challenge. Don't wish for more wisdom. That's the key. So that's lesson one, learn how to handle the winters. Here's lesson two. Learn how to take advantage of the spring. That's the second one. Spring is called opportunity. And spring follows winter. What a great place for it. If you were going to put it somewhere that would be the place to put it right after winter. And pray tell how often does spring follow winter? Every year with regularity 6,000. You can almost count on it. See opportunity always comes. Days follow nights. Isn't that terrific? Opportunity follows difficulty. But here's what you must learn to do. Underline these two words in that key phrase. Take advantage. Underline those two. You must learn to take advantage of the spring. See just because spring rolls around is no sign you're going to look good come fall. You got to do something with it. In fact you have to get good at one of two things in life. Planting in the spring or begging in the fall. Or get somebody to do it for you. See those are about the only alternatives. Now here's what else you must do. Take advantage of the springs quickly because there's only a few. Just a handful of springs have been handed to each of us. They don't come forever. Life is fairly brief. So you got to read every book you can get your hands on and what to do with your springs while they're here. And take advantage they soon run out. The Beatles wrote life is so short. And for John Lennon it was extra short. But life is brief. Elton John sings she lived her life like a candle in the wind. It's brief. So whatever you're going to do with your life you got to get at it. Don't just let the springs pass pass pass. Here's the third major lesson in life to learn. Learn how to protect your crops all summer. You got to take care of what you start. Fair enough as soon as you've planted your garden in the spring the busy bugs and the noxious weeds are out to take it. And here's the next bit of truth. They will take it unless you prevent it. And that's the third major skill to learn. You've got to learn to prevent the intruder from taking all the good you start. It's one of the challenges. Here's two key phrases under number three. First one all good will be attacked on this planet. Maybe not the next one we get to but on this one all good will be attacked. Every garden will be invaded. Not to think so is naive. And here's the second phrase. All values must be defended. Political values social values community values family values marriage values friendship values business values. Every garden must be tended all summer. Third major lesson. Now here's number four. Fourth major lesson in life to learn. Learn how to reap in the fall without complaint. Learn to reap come harvest time without complaint. Take full responsibility for what happens to you. It's one of the highest forms of human maturity. Accepting full responsibility. It's the day you know you've passed from childhood to adulthood. The day you accept full responsibility. And another note. Learn to reap in the fall without apology. Without apology if you do well and without complaint if you don't. That's maturity. I used to have that long list of reasons why I wasn't doing well. To explain. You got to explain right. Otherwise you're going to look bad. I used to have this funny list called reasons for not looking good. I used to blame the government. I mean you can believe that or not. It was at the top of my list. I had a lecture second to none. The government that was on the list. I used to blame taxes. Look what you got left after they take everything. And they expect you to do well. That was on my list there. Prices. That one's easy right. You walk into the supermarket with twenty dollars come out with a little half bag. I had that on my list. 