Get around successful people and listen. Now you can also learn from unsuccessful people. Take notes on both. Negative and positive. On the negative, the notes are called. What not to do. And you've got to learn what not to do as well as what to do. So learn from the negative as well as the positive. Okay? Find out what poor people read and don't read it. Get good information. Learn from the negative. But now you can also learn from the positive. Get around successful people. Listen to what they say. Listen to how they say it. It's important. We've all got about 16 waking hours. Practice listening those 16 hours. And I say practice listening because listening isn't easy. I found out it's easier to talk than it is to listen. But if you will practice listening the 16 hours you're awake, sure enough from surprising sources comes great ideas. In sales training we teach, if you want to learn sales, listen to the kids. Kids have got to be the master sales people of all time. They have no equal. Father tells his young son, no you cannot have an ice cream cone. 30 minutes later he's licking on one. That'd be 30 minutes worth listening to. They've got moves you wouldn't believe. Persistence runs deep like the ocean. And the kids never took a class on how to overcome objections. They already know how. They don't need classes. You tell kids no. That goes right on by. They give you three good reasons. You say no. It goes right on by. They give you three more. They're masters. So listen and learn. Now here's some of the best advice I've got for the whole evening. It won't get any better than this. This is it. Poor people ought to take rich people out to dinner and listen. That's some of the best I got. If a guy's not doing well, one of the first things he ought to do is find a guy that is doing well. And offer to buy him his dinner. Spend 50, 60, 80, 100 dollars. Go for the full nine course. Start him on the juices and hors d'oeuvres. Get him started talking. The salad takes 15 minutes. Keep it rolling. Biggest steak in town takes 45. Keep it rolling. Pour on the dessert. Stretch that meal out about two hours. If you get a successful person to eat and talk for two hours, they're liable to drop ideas in your lap. Change your life. You can multiply your income by two, by three, by five. But you're right. Poor people don't usually take rich people out to dinner. That's the problem. The guy said he's rich, let him buy his own dinner. I'm not coming up with any money. And he says, besides you work where I work, by the time you struggle home, it's late. You're lucky to get your own supper, let alone running around to find a rich man to feed. And the guy's behind on his house payment. Good worker, hard worker, sincere. But you got to be better than sincere. Work hard. You wind up broke. You got to be better than a good worker. You got to be a good listener. And remember, what you read and what you hear, put the good stuff in your journal. Now here's the third way to find out how to change your life. And that's to observe. You can pick up a lot of ideas just by watching. Get around successful people and watch. Here's why. Success leaves clues. Watch how the man shakes hands. Watch how the lady responds. People who do well do certain things over and over and over and over. And if you're clever, you can pick them up. Watch it all. If a guy's making $10,000 a month, I'd watch how he walks. Maybe that's it. Copy his funny little walk. Somebody says, well that's kind of a silly walk. Say it's $10,000. I haven't got the money yet, but I got the walk. It's bound to start somewhere. What I ask you tonight is to be unusual and be a good observer of what's going on. You can pick up ideas that can change your life starting tomorrow. Just be a more careful observer. Now remember there's two ways to see. One is called sight. See with your eyes. The other one is called insight. See with your mind. See with your eyes. You'll see things. See with your mind. You'll see answers. Put your eyes and your mind to work. And the best advice on developing sight and insight is pay attention. Don't miss anything. In the weekend seminar we teach, one of the greatest fatalities to success is preoccupation. Lack of concentration. The guy's mind wanders. See you wind up average. You've got to learn to zero in and concentrate. I read a good article one time, Reader's Digest. The title was Wherever You Are, Be There. Excellent. Don't miss anything. Now we've lingered a little bit long on number one here for personal development. Find out how things work. But it's so very important finding out. And I've given you three ways to find out. Now here's the second step to personal development. Okay number one was find out how things work. Here's number two. Go to work. You must now take action on what you found out. In doing business around the world we call it game plan. Put together your game plan. One of the major things we teach on the weekend seminar is game plans. How to game plan your office. If you're in sales you need a game plan. Kids need a game plan. You need a home game plan. Social game plan. A business game plan. Everybody needs game plans. Financial independence game plan. Your investment game plan. Don't think in your head. Put it on paper. Don't operate out of your mind. Operate from paper. I often ask somebody, what are you going to do the next six months? And somebody starts to tell me. I say no don't tell me. Show me. Show me your game plan for the next six months. Then I can look at things and maybe I can help. But you've got to operate from paper. Put it on a game plan. Take action on what you found out. Now here's the best word I know of to go with action. Massive. See that'll change everything. Massive action is called the cure all. If you're going to make calls make a few thousand. If you're going to make contacts make a few thousand. If you're going to knock on doors knock on a few thousand. See that'll change everything. Here's the language of the poor. I'll try it a time or two and see what happens. It's the way poor people talk. The guy says well I'll give it 30 days. 30 days. You could guess his bank balance. You've got to have a better game plan. So here's one of the major things to do starting tomorrow. Take a look at your game plan. If it isn't loaded with massive action change it. Tomorrow. Action. The formula really works like this. Pick up a good idea take heavy action. Pick up a couple of good ideas take heavy action. That's the formula for sex. Success. Heavy action. It's a good thing we can edit all this right. The formula for success take heavy action on a good idea. Right. That's the ratio. Now here's the key. Don't wait till you've learned two or three thousand things. Because that way you'll use up all the time. And you could wind up smart and broke. And hey it's okay to be dumb and broke. But if a guy's smart and broke that's pitiful. Don't let your learning lead to knowledge. You'll become a fool. Let your learning lead to action. You can become wealthy. And there's many kinds of wealth. I understand that. Not just money. Money's one of the least of all values. I know some people with a lot of money that are very poor. Evita sings as for fortune and as for fame they are illusions. They're not the solutions they promised to be. So there's all kinds of wealth. But to get a big share coming your way you've got to have a heavy action game plan. Now here's the third step to personal development. Step number three. It's just a little caution and all through life we need little cautions. This one simply says don't try to beat the system. Find out how it works. Work it. But don't try to beat it. Some people learn just enough to start slicing it, shading it, thinning it, cutting corners and looking for cheap answers. See don't fall for that. You'll wind up with a cheap life. Find out how it works best and do it that way. Even though it seems to take a little longer, do it right. Don't compromise with right. Now under this step, here's another key. Be a quick learner. Don't let it take long to teach you. Learn quick. Don't run at the wall too many times. 

Learn quicker. One guy said he broke his nose seven times in the same place. Somebody says looks like you'd stay out of that place. Learn quicker. The key is don't be stubborn. See some people won't change even when a better way comes. They say well I've been doing it this way 30 years. Hey be ready for change if it's a better way. Go for it. 

But don't try to beat it. Or you'll be like the guy that went to Las Vegas. He didn't have much money. So he didn't want to risk his money gambling. But he gets to Las Vegas and the jackpot bells are ringing. The money's flowing. The lights are flashing. And he can't help himself. He's got to gamble. But instead of gambling with his cash, he decides to play the mental gambling game. And the brilliant scheme he worked out goes like this. He'd pick a number like number three. Mentally he would bet a certain amount of money on the number. And whether it won or lost, he would jot down that amount in his little pad. I would have won five dollars if I'd have made that bet. Just to keep track of it. Win or lose. That way come midnight he can calculate how he's doing. Win or loser. How much. Only not his money. Keep his money. Just play this mental gambling game. So here he is around the gambling table. Everybody else. Shell not their hard earned cash. He's got this brilliant scheme. Instead of betting with his money, he's betting with his mind and he lost his mind. Which means don't try to beat the system. I guess. Okay. We have covered personal development. By the way, it's the longest subject so take heart. The rest of them are a lot shorter. 

. . . . . . . 