See, anybody can, whether you will or not, see that's the question. And here's a good question to ask. We are all buying somebody's plan. The question is, who's? Who's got you talked into doing what you're doing? Who's got you talked into your present plan? See, ten years from now you will surely arrive. The question is, where? But see, anybody if you want to can go searching for a good plan, pick it and start working it. And sure enough, as the time passes, as it surely will five years from now, ten years from now, then you'll be winding up wearing what you want to wear, driving what you want to drive, living where you want to live, become what you want to become. But now is the time to fix the next ten years. And who can? Anybody. Here's number six. The sixth key to sowing and reaping. This is leveling with you now as we promised to do. There's one thing better than the truth. And that's the whole truth. And here's part of the whole truth of the law of sowing and reaping. Number six is, you could lose. 

There are times when you just lose, no matter what you do. It's that kind of planet. You reap what you sow, yes, but... What does that mean, yes, but? Well, the farmer plants his crop in the spring, takes care of it all summer, loves his family, works ten, twelve hours a day, six, seven days a week, is an honorable man. Come fall, he's got a beautiful crop, and he deserves every bit of it. But the day before he sends the combines into the field, a hail storm comes along and beats it all in the ground, which means you lose. 

Somebody says, well, what did he do wrong? Answer, nothing. It's just that kind of planet. Sometimes it's going to hail on your crop and rain on your parade. So you got to get ready for that or you will be naive. That's just part of the life arrangement. And don't press me why. I was not in on some of the original decisions here, so I don't know how it got set up. But there's just time, sometimes you lose. That's part of life. But now here's number seven. The seventh key to sowing and reaping. And it goes like this, it's just another way to quote the same law. And it goes like this. If you don't sow, that's just another way to quote the law. If you don't sow, what? You don't reap. You don't even have a chance. 

So if you looked at your game plan tomorrow, you might come to the quick conclusion. I got to get some sowing going. How true. Get you some sowing going. And remember, you've got plenty of time. You've got all the time there is. Some people spend enough TV time to make a fortune. 

The latest article on television watching in this country, according to the latest article, the average television is on in this country in every household seven hours a day. Called the Big Seven. 

I asked a guy one time what his TV cost. He said about $450. I said, you forgot to look at the price tag. He said, what do you mean? I knew he was a TV watcher. I said, that television cost you, in my opinion, at least $12,000 a year. 

To watch it. Not to own it. Owning it's cheap. Watching it is what's expensive. And I said, hey, $12,000 a year is too much to pay to watch TV. That's too much. Pay a little, but not $12,000. And he's the guy that said, I hope pay TV never comes. 

Okay. We're trying to cover an awful lot tonight. I realize that. But my time schedule is such that we just have to sort of give it all to you and let you sort the rest out. I wish we had plenty of time for questions and answers and that whole thing, but our time is just limited. But we are trying to go through an awful lot. I realize that. But it looks like everybody's getting it. This is about the note taking this crowd I've seen in a long time. Incredible. Does anybody have five pages yet? Anybody? Oh, fantastic. Incredible. Okay. 

Maybe you heard the story about the preacher down in Texas, southern part of the country. 

He was an evangelist back in the horse and buggy days. And he was very good at being an evangelist. And a lot of people used to come and hear him preach. And one day he put up his tent in one of these Texas towns and expected a big crowd as usual come here and preach. And he got there first night of the tent revival, walked in. Seven thirty. Time to start. And to his surprise, the tent was empty. He thought, well, something must be drastically wrong. So he waited till quarter to eight. Nobody showed up. Eight o'clock. Zip. Finally. Eight fifteen. One lone cowboy. Wandered up on his horse. Tied his horse up outside. Came in. Sat down on the front bench. Right. Waiting for something to happen. The preacher thought, well, at least I better go down and talk to the cowboy. So he walks down and talks to the cowboy and he says, cowboy, I'm the preacher. And he said, I don't know what to tell you. Something's gone wrong. He said this tent was supposed to be full of people. He said, I'm embarrassed. He said, you're the only one that showed up. And he said, I really don't know what to do. And the cowboy said, well, I'm not a preacher, so I really can't tell you what to do. You know, he said, I'm just a cowboy. But he said, I know this. If I went out to feed my cattle and only one showed up, I'd at least feed it. The preacher thought, hey, the cowboy is right. If you've got a good idea to share, you should share it. If there's one or a thousand. So he got kind of inspired by this conversation. And he jumped up on the platform, started to preach as if the tent was full of people. Just exploded. And he went for an hour, hour and 15 minutes just kept rolling. Finally, he quit. And when he finished, he came down off the platform, talked to the cowboy again, says, well, cowboy, what did you think? I'm a sermon. And the cowboy said, well, I'm not a preacher, so I really can't tell. You know, he said, I'm just a cowboy. But he said, I know this. If I went out to feed my cattle and only one showed up, I'd feed it. But I wouldn't dump the whole load on it. 

So anyway, if it seems like we're dumping the whole load tonight, I guess we are. But gosh, everybody's doing well. I'm having a good time. I appreciate the response here tonight. OK, the next subject is setting goals. Let me show you what turned my life every way but loose. Mr. Shove dropped this idea on me, changed me completely. Setting goals. Here's what can easily happen if you don't set goals. It's easy to let life deteriorate into making a living. Instead of designing a life. And we all have a choice. Make a living or design a life. 

It's easy to get trapped by economic necessity and settle for existence rather than substance. That's easy. But the best advice I can give you on how to break out of that trap is to learn how to set goals. 

Mr. Shove put it to me this way. He said, Jim, if you had enough reasons, you could do the most incredible things. I never forgot how he put that. If you have enough reasons. 

See, reasons will change your whole life. 

Mr. Shove said to me, he said, Mr. Rohn, I think you've got plenty of intelligence. You've got plenty of talent. You've got plenty of ability. Probably what you lack is plenty of reasons. He said, I don't think your current bank balance is a true indication of your level of intelligence. I was happy to hear that. He said, I think you're much smarter than your present bank balance indicates. And that turned out to be true. I was much smarter. But of course, my first question was, well, then why isn't it bigger? And he said, you don't have enough reasons. You've got enough intelligence, but not enough reasons. So see, reasons can change your life. Here's what else I found out. Reasons come first. Answers come second. You don't get the answers to do well till you get the reasons. Life has a mysterious way of hanging on to all the answers and only gives them up to the people that are inspired by reasons. So reasons make the difference in how your life works out. Now, what are some of the reasons for doing well? Let's go through a quick list called reasons for doing well. 

First is personal reasons. Some people do well for recognition. Some people do well for respect. Some people do well for the way it makes them feel. They love the feeling of being a winner. Those are good reasons. 

I have some millionaire friends that keep working 10, 12 hours a day making more millions. 

And it's not because they need the money. It's because they need the joy and the satisfaction and the pleasure that comes from being a constant winner. 

And see, it's not just the money anyway. It's the journey, not the money. 

Once in a while, somebody says to me, boy, if I had a million dollars, I'd never work another day in my life. That's probably why the good Lord sees to it. They don't get their million. They'd quit. They'd quit. 

Okay. Next is family reasons. Some people do extremely well for other people. And that's powerful. Human beings can greatly affect each other. Sometimes we will do things for somebody else we will not do for ourselves. We are made that way. 

I met a man one time who said, Mr. Rowan, to do all the things I want to do with my family around the world. He said, I got to have at least a quarter of a million dollars a year. I thought, incredible. 

Could a guy's family affect him that much? And the answer is, of course. How fortunate are the people that find themselves greatly affected by somebody for personal achievement? 

And we are affected. The writer of a recent song said, if not for you, the winter would hold no spring. Couldn't hear a robin sing. I just wouldn't have a clue. If not for you. So we can be affected. That might be one of the most stimulating reasons to do well. Finding somebody. 