When Andrew Carnegie died, the wee little Scotsman that built the big steel industry, when he died they opened up his desk and in one of the desk drawers they found a slip of paper. On that piece of paper Mr. Carnegie had written his goal for his life and he wrote it when he was in his twenties. And on that piece of paper it said, I'm going to spend the first half of my life accumulating money. I'm going to spend the last half of my life giving it all away. 

What a goal. He got so inspired by that goal that the first half of his life he accumulated $450 million. And the last half of his life he gave it all away. 

Good question tonight. What's got you turned on? What's got you bombed out of sight to get up early and stay up late and hit it all day? 

Next question. What's got you turned off? 

When I found the answers to those two questions my life exploded into change. I finally found out what had me turned off and I got that cured. And then I got me a long enough list of reasons to turn me on. And once the lights went on for me, age 25, they've never gone out. I've fallen out of the sky a few times, but I've never lost that drive to make something unique out of my life. See, reasons altered my whole life. 

Now there's another list of reasons called nitty gritty. Hard little reasons. Sometimes those little reasons are the most powerful reasons that can change your life. Sometimes it doesn't take much. 

I now carry several hundred dollars in my money clip. It's only a few hundred dollars, but it was one of those reasons turned my life around. Just before I met Mr. Shove, I heard a knock at the door. I go to the door and there's a little girl standing there about this tall selling Girl Scout cookies. And she gave me one of the finest sales presentations I've ever heard. Special deal, several flavors, this whole package of stuff. Two dollars. And with a big smile, she very politely asked me to buy. And I wanted to. Big problem. 

I'm broke. I don't have two dollars. And to this day, I can remember the pain and the embarrassment. I'm a father. I'm a husband. I've been to college. I'm working. I'm 25. I don't have two dollars. 

And I didn't want to tell her that for some reason. 

So I did what I thought was next best. I lied to her. 

I said, hey, look, I've already bought lots of Girl Scout cookies. I've still got plenty stacked in the house, which was not true. 

But it seemed to get me off the hook for the moment. She said, well, gosh, that's wonderful. Thank you very much. And she went away. When she left, I closed the door. And that was the day I said to myself, I don't want to live like this anymore. I've had it with lying and I've had it with being broke. I'm never going to let this happen to me ever again. I promised that day I would work as hard as possible and would always carry plenty. It took me a little while. But now I do. It was one of those reasons. And I guess I carry plenty for two reasons. One is the way it makes me feel. But also in case I bump into another Girl Scout selling cookies. I'm ready. I walked out of the Bank of America one time up in Saratoga, California, where I used to live. Two little girls selling candy right outside the bank. Good place. Some girls organization they're working for, right? I come walking out of the bank. This first little girl walks up to me. She said, Mr. Would you like to buy some candy? I said, I probably would. What kind is it? She said, it's Alman Roca. I said, my gosh, that's my favorite. She said, wonderful. I said, how much is it? She said, it's just two dollars. I thought, incredible. 

I said, how many boxes of that candy have you ever had? I said, I've had it with being broke. I'm never going to let this happen to me ever again. I promise. I promise. I said, how many boxes of that candy have you got? 

She said, five. And her little friend was standing there. She was selling candy too. I said, how many boxes have you got? She said, I've got four. I said, that's nine. I'll take them all. 

They said, really? 

I said, yeah, it's my favorite. I've got some friends. I'll pass them around. They got so excited, put all this candy together. I reached in my pocket, gave them the 18 dollars. When I've got the candy and they've got the money, that first little girl looks up at me. She says, mister, you are really something. 

How about that? Can you imagine only spending 18 dollars and have somebody look at you in the face and say, you are really something? Now you know why I carry heavy, right? I'm not going to miss anymore. 

It was just one of those reasons that helped to change my life. One of my nitty gritty reasons was budget finance. Budget finance used to grind my soul. 

Way back in those early days, I had fallen for one of those consolidation loans 

where you take all your little hard to pay bills, put them into one big impossible to pay bill, right? 

I would get four or five payments behind. This one guy used to call me day and night. I don't think they're allowed to do that anymore. He harassed me, threatened to run me in front of the judge, threatened to ruin my credit, threatened to embarrass my family. One day he said, we're going to come get your car, drag it rear end up down the street in front of your neighbors. The guy even called me a flake. 

And back in those days, I'm broke, I'm pitiful, there's nothing I can do about it. But I never forgot how the guy treated me. 

And when I met Mr. Shoaff and I got my life straightened out and the money started to flow, that was one of my first projects, budget finance. I poured it on day and night. I finally put all the money together. I owed him, which was considerable. I picked a day for the payoff. And when the payoff day came, I put the money in small bills in a big briefcase. And I walked into the budget finance office on Wilshire Boulevard in Los Angeles. The guy who harassed me so often, his desk was about three back. I walked right up to his desk, startled him. He wondered what I was doing there. It was the first time I'd been there since I borrowed the money, right? Without saying a word, I opened up this briefcase, dumped this pile of money all over his desk. I said, count it, it's all there. I will never be back. And I turned around and stormed out. 

Now, that might not be noble, but if you haven't tried it, you've got to one time. 

It can be the day that turns your life around. All you need is a reason that turns you on. 

One of my dear friends, Robert Depew, Bobby used to be a school teacher in Lindsay, Olive capital of the world. Bobby taught school several years, got a little weary teaching school. One day decided he wanted to get into sales. So without telling anybody, he just up and quit his job teaching school and jumped into sales. When he did, his brother made fun of him, laughed at him, put him down, said, said, 

had a good job teaching school. Now he thinks he's a sales. He's going to go down the drain, lose everything. Just put him down something fierce. Bobby said, 

he said, 

And my question for you tonight is, is it possible to get that mad? 

Of course. 

Wealth is not a matter of intelligence. It's a matter of inspiration. 

Today, Robert happens to be one of my millionaire friends. Bobby's rich. Frank Sinatra said one time, the best revenge is massive success. 

Hey, get you a long enough list of reasons so that after tonight, you never lack for inspiration. You might not have all the answers right away, but you can get the answers if you can get the reasons. Now let me give you a little simple formula for goal setting. 