Now let me give you a little simple formula for goal setting. Okay? 

We take two two and a half hours on the weekend for the whole 10-year plan We don't have time for that tonight, but let me get you started with a little simple formula. Mr. Shove gave me and maybe this will be helpful. First of all, I've divided goals into two parts First is long-range 

Long-range goals, that's your dreams Your dreams Your dreams for the next three five ten twenty thirty forty years actually the rest of your life your dreams You've got to keep dreaming 

Ronald Reagan president said to the joint session of Congress a few weeks ago the Republic is a dream and If we don't keep dreaming we will lose the Republic Your better future is a dream for yourself and for your family. Where do you want to go? What do you want to do? What do you want to be? What do you want to see? You've got to dream dreams. There's a Bible phrase that says without dreams and visions people perish You've got to have something to go for that inspires the heart and the soul 

Dreams From the children of Sanchez it says Take the crumbs from starving soldiers. They won't die take the bread from hungry children They won't cry but without dreams we all will die You've got to dream Don't lose your dreams For Yourself for your future for your family the dreams of love and enterprise and travel and doing things Becoming something unique on your journey here. Don't lose your dreams. Do some dreaming That's a long-range goals. You've got to have those so that's number one Here's the second part of goals short-range Short-range goals that's your goals for tomorrow this week this month this year the immediate future We call these confidence builders Because if you set up something short-range go for it get it latch latch on to it work hard accomplish it That starts building your strong feelings to go for your dreams 

Now I've divided goals into three categories here they are Number one is economic Number one is economic That's your goals for money income business profits production Economics make sure you've got your economics well planned Economics plays a major role in everybody's life Economics is major which means it ought to be meticulously well planned for tomorrow this week this month this year long-range What if you ask somebody tomorrow if you could see their meticulously well planned list of economic goals 

What would they probably say they say you some kind of a nut you must be weird 

Hey, I found out what success is success is doing what the failures won't do Make sure you've got your economics well planned it'll put you in the top five percent One of the key little subjects we talk about on the weekend is the seven fundamentals for wealth and happiness And that's one of them well planned economics. It's a fundamental if you want to do well join the top five percent Anybody in this room can join the top five percent if you will The top five percent anybody in this room can join the top five percent if you will 

Now here's the second category of goals things make a list of the things you want And on my list of things now I put everything little things as well as major things doesn't matter how small it is it goes on my list I Used to just put major things cars homes. I don't do that anymore. I now load my list with everything everything and The reason is part of the fun of having a list is checking it off That's it Boy at the end of the day if you can go got it got it got it got it got it got it Got it, whatever it is right you get into the habit So load up your list the things you want now when you check off something major 

Celebrate that's an important point to make celebrate your achievements 

Live it up have a party When you reach something you've worked for for a while See we all grow from two experiences one is called the pain of losing the other one is called the joy of winning We need both of them amplify them as much as you can Which also means make losing painful if you set up something fooled around didn't get it Put it on yourself on the other side if you did get it congratulate yourself self Congratulations is a sign of maturity Seeking congratulations is a sign of immaturity But hey winning and losing see that's what it's all about. That's the name of the game Now some people lead such mediocre lives at the end of the day, they don't know whether they're winning or losing They got no clue guys just going through the day with his fingers crossed 

There's a better way Okay, here's the third category of goals personal development Put those goals together personal development goals, that's your goals to be stronger more decisive be a speaker be a leader Learn a language all kinds of skills. Okay, the whole weekend seminar was designed to improve all your skills So that you walk away more skillful and that's what you want the personal development skills. That's what attracts That's what brings good things to your life the person you become more skillful Now this is quite a package to work on economics things Personal development for tomorrow this week this month this year long-range Okay, that'll get you started Now here's the simple formula for setting goals it goes like this a work on your goals That's step one work on them and I put the word work there deliberately setting goals is plain hard work. I Don't want to kid you haven't come here tonight to kid each other 

It's work, I know it's work that's why a lot of people just let it slide it's work Many people work hard on their job, but they don't work hard on their future They just let that slide and the work involved is making plans I 

Know most people don't I understand that but don't let that be you 

Guy says well, yeah, you work where I work by the time you struggle home. It's You got to eat a bite of supper watch a little TV get to bed You can't sit up half the night plan plan plan and the guys be 

Good worker hard worker Sincere but you've got to be better Than sincere working hard You got to be better than a good worker. You got to be a good planner Somebody once wisely said the people who fail to plan or planning to fail 

Well said So work on your goals. Here's step two Write your goals down That's so important I teach my staff around the world put your goals in your journal 

Because one of the major people you have to be careful about is Because one of the major people you want to study is yourself 

So here's the list of goals I put together three weeks ago, here's the list of goals I put together two years ago Here's some of the changes I made rearrangement of my priorities. I scratched these off. I put these on I've gotten these Study your accomplishments study what your desires are put them on paper write them down Here's another reason for writing your goals down it shows you're serious about doing better and to do better you got to get Serious you don't have to be grim, but you must be serious 

Everybody hopes things will get better 

Everybody hopes Poor people hope that ought to tell you something It means the future does not get better by hope it gets better by plan. I 

Used to have the affliction called passive hope it's an affliction 

It's bad Probably what's even worse than that is happy. Hope now that is really bad. That's bad Happy hope The guy's 50 and he's broke and he's still smiling see that's not good 

So get serious about your goals put them on paper write them down There's all kinds his goals her goals their goals business goals financial goals financial independence goals Family goals. I mean there's so many things to work on on this that if you don't get busy and work on it sure enough The time will pass and sure enough five years from now You'll wind up where you don't want to be wearing what you don't want to wear driving what you don't want to drive being what? You don't want to be Now's the time to fix it Now here's the third step to your goals Check the size of your goals and the kinds of goals How big they are what kind they are Affects you 

And here's one of the important phrases of the evening your goals are affecting you whatever they are Your goals affect your handshake your goals affect your attitude Personality your goals affect the way you walk the way you talk the way you dress All day long we're being affected by our goals 

Now some people have goals, but they have such lousy go The effect is bad I 

Asked a guy one time. What are your goals for this month? The guy said look if I could just scrape up enough money to pay these lousy bills that was his goal I'm not saying it isn't the goal. It's a goal, but it's such a lousy goal. The effect is bad 

You don't jump out of bed on Monday morning and say oh boy another chance to go out and scrape up the money to pay My lousy bills, so you don't do that Usually you say oh not another Monday 

And some people have so given up on life They have joined the thank God. It's Friday Club How sad Surely those are the same people when life is over for them will say thank God it's over 

You 