“I wish for you a life of wealth, health 

and happiness; a life in which you give to yourself the gift of patience, the virtue of reason, the value of knowledge, and the influence 

of faith in your own ability to dream about and to achieve worthy rewards.” 

***— Jim Rohn***



**JIM ROHN**

For more than 40 years, Jim Rohn honed his craft like a skilled artist, helping people all over the world sculpt life strategies that expanded their imagination of what is possible. Jim set the standard for those who seek to teach and inspire others. He possessed the unique ability to bring extraordinary insights to ordinary principles and events. Those who had the privilege of hearing him speak can attest to the elegance and common sense in his material. It is no

coincidence, then, that he is widely regarded as one of the most influential thinkers of our time and a national treasure. Jim authored numerous books and audio and video programs, and he helped motivate and shape an entire generation of personal development trainers and hundreds of executives from America’s top corporations. 

For additional information or to shop for Jim Rohn’s best-selling books, CDs, DVDs and more, go to www.JimRohn.com. 

**A NOTE ON THESE GUIDES**

The text of these guides is based on transcripts of Jim Rohn’s most popular lectures and writings on the subjects of time management, personal development, leadership, goal setting and communication. 

His original words have been transcribed, edited, rearranged and slightly modified in some instances for greater clarity. 

As you read, you may recognize a familiar pace to the text. It is our hope that Jim’s easy conversational tone and speaking style come across in your reading of each and every page. Though some of Jim’s references may be out of date, his life philosophies and success principles transcend the years and are as relevant today as they were when he first expressed them. 

The intent of these guides is to provide a concise, easy-to-read treatment of the subject matter that can be read in a short sitting of 15 to 20 minutes per subject. Highlight your favorite parts and keep it close for easy reference again and again. The guides make perfect gifts for friends, family, associates, clients and anyone you feel would benefit from the timeless wisdom of a true legend. 

For information about quantity discounts on individual Jim Rohn Guide booklets or the complete set of booklets, go to the last page of

this anthology or visit JimRohn.com or store.SUCCESS.com. 



**THE JIM ROHN GUIDE TO TIME**

**MANAGEMENT**

Let’s talk about time management. I’ve got several approaches to the management of time. Here’s the first approach. Ignore the subject. That’s valid. A guy says, “Hey, I’ve been late all my life and it doesn’t look like all this time management’s going to work for me. I just ignore it.” That’s wonderful. And I say that really to make this point: Remember, be a student, not a follower. Design your own personal life. I’m very happy for people to take notes at my seminars. 

But I’m also just as happy if someone says, “Hey, this is not for me.” 

Tear up all these notes and throw them away. That’s just as valid for me. Remember, be no one’s disciple. Chart your own course, make what you do the product of your own conclusion. This is valid—

ignore the subject. 

Here’s another approach to time management. Step down to something easier. If you’re getting hassled by the management of time, you might want to change course. What I’m saying here is be your own person. You don’t have to be a model of someone else. 

You don’t have to do it like anybody else. Do it like yourself. Buy what you want to buy, listen to what you want to listen to, make changes if you want to make changes, and don’t make changes if that’s what you want. It’s your life. And don’t let anybody persuade you any different. 

**THE DIGNITY OF CHOICE**

Success is not a stereotype. Success is not a Ferrari. Success is not an automobile. It’s not a house. It’s not a place. It’s not money in the bank. It’s not a million dollars. That’s not success. Success is the continual unfolding of the design of your own life and pulling it off. 

That’s what success is. Being successful in whatever you want to do that makes sense to you, for you and your family. Take on

responsibilities or refuse them, it’s all up to you. We’ve been given the power of choice. 

Every life form except human beings operates by instinct in the genetic code. It has no multiple choice. Only humans have multiple choice. In the winter the goose flies south. Why? Because he’s a goose. He can’t fly north. He couldn’t fly west. If you said to the goose it’d be better to go west this year, he ignores that advice. He keeps on flying south. Why? He has no alternative. He has no other way. He is only driven, as all life forms are driven, by instinct in the genetic code. 

Except human beings. Now why not human beings? Because we’ve been given the dignity of choice. We’re not like a robot. We’re not stuck like a tree, using up all the nourishment and, with nothing left, you die because you can’t change locations. Not true. Humans can go north, south, east, west. Humans can change and do anything they want to do. We’ve been given the dignity. 

But here’s what’s interesting about all life forms except humans: Every life form except humans strives to the max of its potential. 

How tall will a tree grow? As tall as it possibly can. You’ve never heard of a tree growing half as high as it could. No, that is impossible. A tree grows as high as it can, drives down every root it can, produces every leaf it can, extends itself as far as it possibly can. Every life form extends to the max, except human beings. Now why not human beings? Because we’re not robots. We’ve been given the dignity of choice. 

**DO IT ALL OR DON’T**

Be part of or all of what you have the potential to be. You’ve got the choice. Do a little to make yourself comfortable and forget the rest, or do it all. There’s nobody here to dictate you’ve got to do it all. 

That’s nonsense. You’ve got to be rich because we live in a rich

country. That’s nonsense. You don’t have to be rich. You don’t have to do it all. You can do a little, do some, do some more. Take advice, but don’t take orders. Take information, take training, take teaching, but don’t take orders from anyone that tells you how you need to live and what you need to own and what you need to do. Somebody says, “Well, you need to be successful.” That’s a personal choice, being successful. What we teach is the possibilities, and everybody chooses. Take a little, take a lot, do some, do nothing, or ignore the subject. This is why I put this in here. You’ve got to learn to do that. 

Abraham Lincoln said, “As I would not be a slave, so I would not be a master.” Excellent philosophy. A guy says, “Hey, I’m soon cashing it in and I’m heading for the mountains. I’m going to live in a little cabin, live off the land and feed the squirrels.” If he goes and does that, guess what—he’s a smashing success. Why? He’s doing what he designed to do and pulled it off. You can’t say, “No, no, that’s not successful.” That is the epitome of success—giving a design to your life and pulling it off to make progress in the direction that satisfies you. If it doesn’t satisfy you, make alternatives and change. If you get some better ideas, sure you may follow someone’s suggestions and ideas but not orders. 

**DESIGN YOUR OWN LIFE**

Design your own life like you want it. Now if you take on some responsibilities, you’ve got to consider those. Yes, you can ignore your responsibilities, but you won’t feel good about that. Here’s what the old prophet said: “Some things that taste good now in the mouth turn bitter later in the belly.” So you don’t want to sacrifice. 

We all must suffer one of two pains: the pain of discipline or the pain of regret. What we suggest to everybody is to consider the disciplines because disciplines weigh ounces; regrets weigh tons. 

You don’t want to substitute a discipline for a regret. In our opinion that would be a poor choice. Now you can do it, but some things are

poor tradeoffs. The old prophet said, “What if you gain the whole world but it costs you your soul?” Would that be worth it? With a bit of intelligence, we say no, that doesn’t seem worth it even if you’ve got the whole world if you traded your soul. That experience would be so bitter and so awful and so devastating, it wouldn’t be worth it. 

What if you got some gain by greed instead of legitimate ambition? 

I’m telling you, it might taste good up front, but it’s going to turn bitter in the belly. And a bit of that advice saves some people from devastation. Say, “Well, you’re right. I’d better think twice about that.” 

So we must confront all laws. Spiritual laws, agricultural laws, basic laws, fundamental laws. We must confront all of those. But you still now can design your own life. A little or a lot. Go east, north, south. 

**WEIGH THE COST**

So, time management might be to step down to something easier that doesn’t stress you with the constraints of time. A guy works for a company, he says, “Oh, I’ve got to own one of these.” He finds out he’s now got to work 24 hours a day, all around the clock. And he’s got to worry about all these people. The guy says, “The heck with this. I’m going back where I used to be. I played golf three times a week and made three times as much money as a salesperson. The heck with this running a company.” 

That’s the deal. Don’t put yourself in the straitjacket of something that’s not to your choosing and not to your liking. Now if you really want the prize, to become a multimillionaire and run a company, fine. 

Then you’ve got to pay the price. But hey, it’s strictly up to you. There are no requirements here. Where is it written? There is no law. The key is to try to design your life. Yes, you might try something and say, 

“This costs me too much. I’m away from my family, I’m gone.” So this is valid. 

A little girl said to her mommy, “Daddy never plays with me. He comes home and he’s got this briefcase and he disappears and works on his papers and he tells me to go to bed.” Mom tried to explain and said, “Look, your father loves you very much, but he’s so busy at work that he can’t get everything done and he has to bring it home.” The girl said, “Why don’t they put him in a slower group?” Not a bad idea. If you haven’t got time for your kids, you should consider a slower group. It’s not the money. It’s not the success. You’ve got to make sure everything works. Not something at the expense of everything. At the expense of everything turns out to be too costly. 

**BALANCING ACT**

Life at its best and most fulfilled, I think, is a balancing act to make everything work. A mother’s got the challenge, a father’s got the challenge, and all of this in balance, even the tug of war trying to make it work as husband and wife. A guy’s a baseball player and he gets four or five million dollars a year, and his talent takes him away 185 games, whatever the number of games are that they play. That’s a pretty tough one to do. Gone most of the time. Should he go where his talent leads or should he work at the bank from 9 to 5? It’s a challenge to try to fit, compromise, make it work, make all systems work so you don’t sacrifice everything for something. It’s all a dilemma. 

If you’ve got partners, now it’s the combination of working it out. But let me tell you what, it can be worked out. Here’s what happens if you ignore it. It just gets worse. You’ve just got to confront and say, 

“Let us work it out so that we bless our life with all of the systems that furnish us with a good life.” Guess what? It never ends, this trying to balance your life with everything. 

So, in the management of time, step down to something easier, rearrange your program, pick up someone else’s advice—not orders, but advice that says, “Hey, I went for the money instead, and it cost

me too much.” Here’s the real time management: Make yourself more valuable. Get more from yourself so that you become much more accomplished in an hour that used to take a week. That is the easiest of time management, to make yourself more valuable. 

So now, let me quickly give you the rundown here, some key pieces to time management. 

**MAJOR VS. MINOR**

Here’s a key phrase: Either you run the day or it runs you. Getting in charge, mastering the situation, this is the big challenge. I remember some companies I started years ago. I’d start the company and I’m running the company. First thing you know, the company’s running me. Along about that second year, I say, “Hold it, hold it. I used to be in charge and now I’m out of control. I use to have it on the run, now it’s got me on the run.” And the same is true whether it’s a company or an enterprise or whether it’s the day. The key is you’ve just got to take charge and say, “I’m going to start getting a handle and taking charge of my day and not let it get out of control.” Because it’s so easy to be persuaded and distracted by things that use up time, and then the first thing you know, it’s all out of control. 

It’s not that difficult to get something started and you run it for a while and after a while it starts running you. That’s part of the challenge. I told my staff one day that giving birth to a tiger is one thing, but learning how to ride it is something else. Sometimes you start it and then it turns around and starts giving you all kinds of trouble. 

Here’s the key we’ve all learned, and maybe we just need to be reminded. It’s not the hours you put in; it’s what you put in the hours that count. A guy comes in at night exhausted, he falls into the chair and says, “I’ve been going, going, going.” Doing what? Don’t mistake movement for achievement. Busy, busy, busy, that may not be the deal. It’s the doing what that’s the deal. Some people are busy all

day long doing figure eights. They’re not making much forward progress. They keep coming back around where they started. 

Here are some time management essentials. Learn to set goals so that you have some priorities. Then, constantly review your priorities to make sure it’s what you really want. 

Learn to separate majors and minors. Here’s something that requires minor time. Here’s something that requires major time. Here’s what we teach in sales: the most important time in a salesperson’s career is time in the presence of the prospect. That’s the most important time. Time in the presence of the prospect—that’s called major time. 

Here’s minor time—on the way to the prospect. Making plans to see the prospect, that’s called minor time. In the presence of the prospect, that’s major time. Keeping files on the prospect, that’s minor time. Thinking about prospects and how it’s going to go in the future, that’s called minor time. Here’s major time—in the presence of…. So you’ve just got to arrange your career so that most often you’re in the presence of. Not on the way to, not keeping books on, not thinking about, not making records for, but in the presence of. 

Now the minor things are important, but they’re minor things. Make sure you don’t spend major time on minor things. 

**CONCENTRATION**

Next key to time management is concentration. You zero in if you concentrate. Many times it takes a lot less time when you concentrate. If you get distracted, it takes a whole day because of the distraction. But if you concentrate, it could take an hour instead of a day. It could take a few minutes instead of a half a day. 

I read this little article in *Reader’s Digest*. It said, “Wherever you are, be there.” Concentrate there. I used to try to design my day in the shower. I’m not even awake yet and I’m trying to write a letter. What I

finally learned to do is enjoy the shower. Don’t start the day till you get to the work. On the way, enjoy the way. At breakfast, enjoy the breakfast. Some guys in business, they’re already at the office at the breakfast table. The key is to be at breakfast with your family at the breakfast table. There’s plenty of time to do the business when you get to the office. You can’t compose the next letter eating your cornflakes. Now you’ve got to concentrate on your family. Wherever you are, be there. Concentrate there. That’s a key. 

Next, learn to say no. It is so easy, especially now in a social society to just be pulled everywhere with social obligations. Do you say yes, yes, yes, yes? Then you find yourself so overloaded on your calendar that it eats up all the time. So learn to say no politely. It’s easier to say, “I don’t think so, but if that changes I’ll call,” than to say, “Oh, yes,” and then try to figure out ways to make the call and not to make it. One of my colleagues says, “Don’t let your mouth overload your back.” Because it’s easy to just oblige, wanting to be nice, wanting to be pleasant, wanting to please. But you get pulled in too many directions by saying yes too easy too frequently and finding yourself in a box. 

**WHEN YOU WORK, WORK**

Now here’s a big one on time management. When you work, work. 

When you play, play. Don’t mix the two. Here’s the big one. Don’t play at work. Here’s why: work is too serious. Guess what economics is? Serious business. Economics is a serious subject because you’re trading part of your life being economically sustained and providing protection for you and your family for generations to come. This is a serious deal. The one place you don’t horse around or fool around is at work. Somewhere else, yes. At work, no. 

Just establish that reputation that you don’t fool around at work. Yes, a little pleasantry and, yes, a little story to relieve the tension, but you just don’t play around at work. You’ve got to consider work like the

farmer in the spring. He can’t play around. He’s only got a short season. And you can’t go distract him and have him play around. 

This isn’t playtime. This is work time trying to plant a straight row, get everything right in the short season we’ve got. This is no time to joke around. So develop that reputation not just for other people but for yourself, for your own self-esteem, that says when you work, you work. So don’t play at work. 

Now here’s the rest of it: Don’t work at play. I used to be at the office and I’d say, “I’ve got to take my family to the beach. It’s been so long. 

What does my family think? We’ve got to get to the beach.” So I’m thinking beach while I’m at work. Now I get to the beach with my family, thinking I should be at the office. What am I doing here at the beach? Now my family’s bent out of shape because, yes, I’m at the beach, but I’m also at the office. So here’s what I learned to do: At the office be at the office, and at the beach be at the beach with your family. Don’t mix the two. When you work, work. When you play, play. 

**ANALYZE YOURSELF**

Next on time management—analyze how you are and see if you can at least be covered. If you’re not good at something, then get somebody to take care of it instead of delaying all of the time doing it yourself. Either compensate for it or change. If you’ve tried to balance your checkbook for about a year or two, that’s long enough. 

Just put the money on some accountant’s desk and say, “Look, take care of this for me.” It doesn’t have to be very much, just so it’s taken care of. Either you do it or you can let somebody cover for you and get it done so that you can concentrate on more essential, more important things. 

If you’re a morning person, that’s probably the time to get the best of your work done. Now some people they’re not awake at 11:00 yet, so we call these night people. At midnight they’re still flying. But at

11:00 they’re not quite awake. I’m now more of a morning person. I used to be the night person, now I’m more of a morning person. Way back years ago I used to say, “If God meant you to see the sunrise, he’d have made it later in the day.” But now I love the mornings. The mornings are fresh and clean. The unique thing about starting the day in the morning, you haven’t messed it up yet. The whole day is fresh and clean. Guess what you have in the morning—a clean page. “Let’s see, I don’t want to mess this one up. Let me make some plans here to make this an extraordinarily good day.” That morning time is very unique if you become a morning person. But whatever you are, just analyze how you are. Whatever you’re not good at, see if you can get it covered. 

**BEWARE OF THE PHONE**

Way back in those early days I remember, before I learned to just ignore the phone or unplug it, and back then you couldn’t even unplug it, you had to just let it ring. I used to have friends over and the phone would ring and I’d say, “Just let it ring. We’re having a conversation.” My friends couldn’t stand the phone to ring and not answer it. So they’d go answer my phone. They’d say, “It’s for you.” 

I’d say, “Yeah, I suppose it is.” 

But here’s the key—with all the new stuff now, here’s what you’ve got to do at home—you’ve got to shut everything off and have dinner with your family. You just shut everything off. Now they’ve got it where the messages will be taken and everything will be taken, but you’ve just got to say this time, we shut out the world. It doesn’t matter if the president calls. It doesn’t matter who calls. They’ve got to wait for at least an hour till I’m finished with my family. Your family will take great delight in you shutting out the world. Just shut everything off for a while. There’s plenty of time to get back to it. You say, “Well, what if some emergency is happening?” It’ll have to wait. 

**READ THE BOOKS**

Here’s another key on time management. Read the books. If you need some specific help, there’s a book for it. There have been many books written on time management. Take their advice, but still make your own plans. Become more aware and alert to all the new technology now available that can save your time. Stay in touch. 

Here’s another big-time management principle, especially if you’re working with people. Learn to ask questions before you launch into some tirade or launch into some personal seminar. Sometimes you talk for a half hour, ask a couple of questions and find out you just wasted the previous half hour. Here’s what you should’ve been talking about. So here’s the key, ask questions up front. “John isn’t making sales.” I’ll say, “Hey, call John in and I’ll tear him a new page.” Well, before you do that you’d better ask, why isn’t he making sales? Someone says, “Well, he’s not getting up early and getting out in the marketplace.” He says, “Get him in here, and I’ll teach him some get-up-early stuff.” Well, before we do that we’d better ask one more question, “Why isn’t he up early and out in the marketplace?” 

So we call John in and say, “Hey, John, it’s got to be something personal. You’re not up early. You’re not out in the marketplace.” He says, “Yes, I never thought anyone would ask.” You just ask, “What is it?” Rather than launching into something, save the time, ask the questions up front. 

Now here’s one more tip on asking questions. Sometimes you don’t find the problem until you go two, three questions deep. Because most people don’t just blurt out what’s wrong first question. Most problems are two, three questions deep. Right away, somebody wants to know if they’re going to tell their problem to somebody who doesn’t really care, so you’ve got to establish some connection. 

Then somebody’s willing to disclose. Kids are like that. Say, “How’s it going?” They say, “Okay.” That okay doesn’t sound right. That doesn’t ring right. Something tells you it isn’t okay. So you’ve got to ask the next gentle question and then the third gentle question, and

finally they say, “Yeah, here’s the real problem.” Learn to ask questions up front. That’s the key. 

**THINK ON PAPER**

Learn to think on paper. You solve problems on paper. Let me give you some ways to think on paper. Number one: keep a journal. I used to have three journals. One for business, one for personal, one for a book I was writing. That was too complicated. Then I tried colors of ink. Blue means this, red means this. I got rid of that. Now I just fill one up, and then fill another one up and fill another one up. 

Include personal ideas, a little bit of diary. And that’s all it is. Here’s what a journal is: a collection of your notes and a bit of a diary and what’s going on in your life. It’s just a way to capture it in a bound volume. 

I used to keep notes on pieces of paper, torn off corners, backs of old envelopes, restaurant placemats thrown in a drawer. Guess what? They didn’t serve me well. It was okay for the time, but now trying to find something or going through it, it’s not enticing. So then I learned finally to start putting it in a journal. A bound volume. It’s a little more enticing on a winter day to just sit down and go back through your journal. 

Sometimes when I’m off somewhere and I don’t have my journal, I’ll jot some things down and when I get back to my journal I’ll put them in there, and throw the paper away. Just little ideas like that. You just have to decide whether you need a big one or a small one or a light one or an easy one. But just go. Just start keeping more records of ideas that come your way, whether it’s a recipe or a colossal business idea or the schedule for the next few ball games that are coming up. It doesn’t matter what. Just load stuff in there and then load up another one and load up another one. You will be proud someday that you kept these journals. 

**PROJECTS BOOK**

Next, another pretty good idea: a projects book. Whatever project you’re working on, get a three-ring binder and keep little notes on that project and how it’s going. When you finish the project, you file it somewhere. But as long as that project is active and going, keep that projects book. 

Now I know you can put it all in the computer and you can study that. 

But for me, I like the regular three-ring binder for the projects I’m working to give a little running account of how it’s going. 

If you’re working with a person, you record that person’s name and just keep a little running account of how it’s going between you and the person. If you’re in sales, you’ve got some salespeople in there to keep track of. Give them each a page. Give them each a partition in your projects book. When you’re about to speak to them, do a little review of what you talked about last time. Now you’re better prepared to talk to them this time. It becomes a briefing book. 

When the president gets ready to make a trip to another country, his staff briefs him. They tell him, “When you were there before, here’s what you talked about. When you were there before, here are the promises you made. When you were there before, here’s who you met and here’s who they are and here’s what you said.” And he briefs himself on all of this so that when he goes again, he says, “I remember last time when I was here.” 

These briefing books provide an interchange of both project and person. A little running account of how it’s going, what this person did last month, what they’re doing this month. Even with your children, you can track how they are progressing. They started a little project. How’s that project going? “Well, I helped them do this, and I helped them do this. Is it time for me to lend them a little more assistance?” Just keep a little record of the people and the projects until it’s finally finished and then you file it away. 

Don’t forget a scheduler or day timer. You’ve got to keep track of where you’re supposed to go and who you’re supposed to meet. You know, just load all that stuff in there instead of trying to keep it in your head. I jump in the limo to head for the airport. The driver says, 

“What airline?” And I say, “I’ll have to look” because I don’t store it in my head. Maybe I’m kind of freaky like that. Rather than keep all this stuff loaded in my head, I just find a convenient place to put it where it’s all available. Keep your head open for bigger projects than what airline. 

**GAME PLAN**

Develop a game plan where you schedule all the things you’ve got to do, laying out six months or a year or longer. A game plan is pretty simple because it has a list of all your projects that you want to accomplish, and then you put them on the calendar. 

I found out if your project book is in one place and your calendar is in another place, it gets to be a little confusing. So you have a game plan for a project and schedule how it’s going to work for the next six months, year or more. You say, “Well, I’m going to do some advertising.” That’s the project. And, “I’m going to do some here, some here, some here, and some here.” 

It can work for whatever program you’ve got going, whatever you want to accomplish. For your health program, you say, “I’m going to go to the gym here. I’m going to run this marathon here. I’m going to do this. I’m going to do this. This is my health program.” You see the advantage there is when the project list and the game plan calendar are side-by-side instead of one being in one place and another in another place. 

You’ve got to put your family on there too. The family wants to know where they fit in the game plan. So you start talking, and they say, 

“No, show me.” Wouldn’t kids go for that? “Show me where I am on

the game plan.” You say, “Well, you’re right here and you’re right here and you’re right here, and you’re right here.” They say, “That’s all I need to know.” Don’t kids want to be on your game plan? And it’s better visual than conversation. 

Now, let’s say you’ve got a project in your company and you have to go to your family now because you want to use family time. You make a deal. You say, “Look, I’ve got to knock you out of this because I’ve got a work project. It’s going to mean so much for the business and it’s going to mean so much for the family. We’ll be able to do so many more things, but I’ve got to borrow this time.” Now you have the payback. “If you let me borrow this time, we’ll pay it back here and we’ll do this, this and this.” They’ll say, “Well, that’s okay if you’ll do this, this and this.” I mean, once kids have got you, they’re going to go for the max. But wouldn’t kids be more reassured if they knew they were on your game plan, even though it has to change at times? Even though some emergencies or whatever rearrange the deal? “As long as I’m on the plan.” We simply call this a game plan. 

**A FINAL THOUGHT**

It’s an obvious—yet often overlooked—truth: rich people have 24

hours a day and poor people have 24 hours a day. 

The difference between the rich and the poor is in the management of that time. Successful people often work harder and longer than most, but they almost always work smarter. 

If we get more from ourselves, if we can make an hour as valuable as 10 hours used to be, we can get as much done in a day as we used to get done in a week. Imagine the potential compounding effect of working smarter. 

By practicing the few simple disciplines discussed here every day, you can use time like the rich—with focus and effectiveness. 



**THE JIM ROHN GUIDE TO PERSONAL**

**DEVELOPMENT**

One day my mentor, Mr. Earl Shoaff, said to me, “Jim, if you want to be wealthy and happy, learn this lesson well: Learn to work harder on yourself than you do on your job.” I must admit that this was the most challenging assignment of all. This business of personal development lasts a lifetime. 

You see, what you become is far more important than what you get. 

The important question to ask on the job is not, “What am I getting?” 

Instead, you should ask, “What am I becoming?” What you become directly influences what you get. Think of it this way: Most of what you have today, you have attracted by becoming the person you are today. 

I’ve also found that income rarely exceeds personal development. 

Sometimes income takes a lucky jump, but unless you learn to handle the responsibilities that come with it, it will usually shrink back to the amount you can handle. 

It is hard to keep that which has not been obtained through personal development. So here’s the great axiom of life: *To have more than you’ve got, become more than you are. *

**SKILLS FOR SUCCESS IN THE MARKETPLACE**

The marketplace is a demanding place. There is plenty of opportunity, but you’ve got to get ready for it and prepare for it. 

We’ve got to spend a portion of this year getting ready for next year, and we’ve got to spend a portion of this decade getting ready for the next decade. Hopefully the reason why we’re here, looking well, 

doing fairly well, is because we spent a portion of the last decade getting ready for this decade. 

So, a big share of life is spent getting ready, getting prepared, and part of it is the development of skills. I’ve got a good key phrase for you to start with in developing skills that make for success in the marketplace. First, it starts with personal development, self-improvement, making measurable progress. 

**PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT IS NOT AN EASY MATTER**

Personal development is a push. It’s a struggle. It’s a challenge. 

There wouldn’t be any winning without a challenge. That’s what life is all about. It’s the struggle and the challenge to develop ourselves and our skills to see what we can create in the way of value in the marketplace. 

Life is all about creating skills and value and taking those skills and value to the marketplace and seeing what it will return for you. Now it also has a social part, a spiritual part as well as the physical part, and we’re going to talk about some of those parts. 

New habits don’t come easy, but they can be developed. Sometimes when you develop a lot of momentum in one direction, it’s not that easy to change but it is possible. It isn’t easy, but it’s possible. 

Somebody once said, success is 10 percent inspiration and 90

percent perspiration. You’ve just got to read the books, learn the skills, put yourself through the paces, do the mental pushups and get yourself ready. 

Inspiration is fine, but inspiration must lead to discipline. It’s one thing to be motivated, but it’s another thing to be motivated sufficiently to take the classes, do the reading, do the repetition, go through it over and over, until it becomes part of you. And those are challenges. They’re not easy, but they’re challenges that if you win

and develop and grow, that’s what determines your place, your return, your equity, the worth you get from the marketplace. 

**THREE PARTS OF PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT**

I’ve divided personal development into three parts. Let me give you those. 

**1. Spiritual**

I know when you talk spiritual you can get in an argument most anywhere, but I have a simple belief that says humans are not just animals. Some people believe we’re just an extension and an advanced form of the animal species, but I believe humans are unique. Spiritual qualities make us different from all other creations. 

Now I’m an amateur on that side of it, so I can’t give you a lot of advice there, but I would recommend you be a student of the spiritual side of your nature. And whatever you have to read and assimilate to develop in that area I would strongly suggest you do. 

**2. Physical**

The mind and the body work together, so we’ve got to give some attention to both, mind and body. Development of mind and body. On the physical side, you’ve heard the phrase that says treat your body like a temple. A temple. Not a bad word. Something you would take extremely good care of. Treat your body like a temple, not a woodshed, right? A temple. Take good care of it. 

The only house we have to live in currently is the physical body we have and that’s part of success in the marketplace. That’s physical well-being. It’s feeling good about yourself physically, so that you stride into the marketplace with a sense of self-worth, self-confidence, having taken care of that end of it. It covers several parts, including good nutrition. Physically you can do extremely well if you just pay some attention. Read all the books about nutrition to

make up your own mind. There are a lot of weird conflicts in the nutritional aspect, but you just have to read and decide for yourself a good plan for you, a good health plan. 

Then there’s physical appearance. Be skillful enough to take care of your appearance in the marketplace. It has a lot to do with your acceptance. A big share of it is how you appear to other people—on the job, performing, company, community. There’s a saying that goes, “God looks on the inside and people look on the outside.” 

That’s not a bad suggestion, meaning: Take care of the inside for God, and take care of the outside for people. You say, well, people shouldn’t judge you by your appearance. Well, let me tell you, they do\! Don’t base your life on should and shouldn’t. Only base your life on realities. Sure, when people get to know you they’ll judge you by more than what they see, but at first they’re going to take a look. So, physical appearance is part of the physical side of personal development. 

Now, I’ve got another good phrase for you. It says, be conscious of self, but not self-conscious. There’s a certain point that we need to be conscious of ourselves, take care of it, then let it go. Some people worry about their appearance all day and it detracts rather than adds. So take care of it, and then let it go. Do the best you can, and let that get the job done. Be conscious of ourselves, but not to the point of being self-conscious. 

**3. Mental**

Here’s the third part to personal development: the mind. Stretching your mind, developing good thinking habits, good study habits, pursuing ideas, and trying to find ways to apply them to human behavior and the marketplace. All of that takes mind-stretch and mind-exercise. Part of it is stretching yourself in reading habits. You can’t live on mental candy, so you’ve got to have the full range of mental food in order to grow. We call that mind-stretch. 

Your willingness to tackle subjects that are difficult and that most people have decided to let slide gives you an extraordinary edge in

the marketplace. How can you master part of the high skills, the extraordinary skills that make you an unusual performer in the marketplace? It takes mind-stretch. Some people skip poetry and literature, the Bible, history and a lot of things that seem a little difficult to attack. But if you always back away from something that seems a little difficult at first, you leave yourself weak. You leave yourself unprepared in the marketplace. So, don’t be afraid to tackle the heavyweight stuff. It may be a lot easier than you think once you get into it and learn skill after skill. 

**LEARN THE OTHER SIDE OF THE ARGUMENT**

Another part of mind-stretch is to learn the other side of the argument. Whether you’re debating spiritual, political, physical, behavior, whatever it is, don’t be afraid of the other side of the argument. If you’re going to be a good debater, you’ve got to know the other side of the argument. So that’s what I’m asking you to do. 

Don’t be afraid of the other side of the argument. If you’re strong mentally, you can handle it, and you’ve got to give people points for their side of the argument. Give credit to somebody who’s got a good point. Even though you don’t agree with their argument, you must agree that they came up with a good point. That’s part of mind-stretch, studying the other side of the argument. 

**YOUR PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT LIBRARY**

Now part of all this is developing what I call a personal development library. Mr. Shoaff got me started back when I was 25 years old. 

Since I’d missed most of my college education, he said to me, “I pass it along to you to be self-educated.” 

Education doesn’t cease when you leave college or leave the university. Education is a lifetime process. We keep putting ourselves

through the paces to learn. That’s how you get into the higher numbers income. That’s how you get into the higher brackets enterprise. That’s how you become a more useful, productive, valuable citizen, making a contribution to family, community, country, enterprise. Work hard on developing these skills and be self-educated. 

Mr. Shoaff said to me, “Standard education gets you standard results.” He said why not go beyond the standard and the average and the acceptable and become the advantaged, the extraordinary, or the extra-capable? I picked up on that. I had decided back at age 18 or 19 just to get a job, work hard, and do the best I could. And Mr. 

Shoaff said there is a lot more to life than that. Why don’t you master some extraordinary skills? Why don’t you move up to the higher level and see if you wouldn’t find the taste better in the results you get from that exercise? I did that. 

Now, your personal development library needs to be a whole mix. It can’t just be a single piece of it. Some people these days are just into self-improvement, self-help, inspirational things. But you can’t live on mental candy alone. You need more than that. Your library needs to be balanced like the pantry in your kitchen. You can’t be strong just on the easy stuff. You’ve got to tackle the full range. We should study history, biographies and autobiographies. Study people who have done unique things, both admirable and despicable. We need to be students of both. 

Sometimes novels are great ways of sharing dialogue, ideas and philosophy woven into the story. The sweep of the story carries us along, but sure enough little by little we’re getting the dialogue. We need the full range of culture: dance, the arts, literature. Then we need books on geography and language. We need to study a bit of law. No matter what you’re going to do in life, we all need a bit of fundamentals on law, contracts, what to sign, what not to sign. 

Almost everything now has legal implications. 

**FOUR STEPS TO SUCCESS**

I’ve developed four steps to success in the quest for personal development. 

**1. Good Ideas**

Ideas are the life seeds of enterprise. A better life comes first of all by the search for good ideas. Never cease your quest for knowledge. 

Finding ideas can be life-changing. Business ideas, social ideas, personal ideas—nothing is as powerful as an idea whose time has come. Be a searcher of good ideas: timely ideas, political ideas, family ideas, ideas for health. Then, do what I do. Keep a journal. 

Keep a log of good ideas. That’s for the serious students. I used to take notes on pieces of paper and found out I couldn’t go through them, couldn’t catalog them, and I missed a lot of good stuff. So I learned to keep good ideas in a journal and I’ve been keeping journals all these years. It’s an extension of your learning library. 

**2. Good Plans**

Be a student of good plans. Plans are important because they take ideas to the marketplace. Plans give birth to ideas. Plans well executed bring ideas into enterprise and bring ideas into the better life. Ideas without plans forever hang like an artist’s rendering on the wall. They never become reality. They never become substance. So, I’m asking you, develop good plans, good disciplined activity plans. 

Riches do not come by crossing your fingers and walking through the day hoping. Riches and wealth come from well-laid plans. 

If a child starts between the ages of 12 and 15 with a good plan and a normal average income, by age 40 they should be wealthy. Age 45

at the latest. Now if you’re not wealthy by age 45, it simply means you didn’t have a good plan. Opportunity without good plans misses all the worth and wealth you could have. So be a student of good plans. 

**3. The Passing of Time**

All of us have to learn to handle time. It’s one of the challenges of life, how to handle the passing of time. Sometimes waiting from spring to fall is difficult to handle. That’s not an easy stretch, especially if you have heavyweight creditors. You planted in the spring and now the creditors are on you in the summer. We have a tendency to walk out into the field and say, “Grow crop, grow, they’re on me.” But we have to learn to wait. Part of success is patience. We Americans probably have to learn patience more than any other people on earth in our push-button society, right? But it takes patience—the passing of time. 

**4. Solving Problems**

The fourth step to success in the quest for personal development is the solving of problems. It’s a simple way to describe success. 

Success is simply solving problems. Now there are all kinds of problems: business problems, family problems, personal problems, financial problems, emotional problems. Everybody’s got a list of problems. 

Problem solving is where enterprise comes from. This is how you build worth and wealth, solving the problem. I met Neil Armstrong one time, the first man on the moon. He’s got a unique talk with his experiences being the first man on the moon. Neil Armstrong put it fairly simply. He said going to the moon and back was simply a matter of solving problems. What a simple way to put it. Problem 1: how to get there. Problem 2: how to get back. That’s simple, right? 

He said make sure you don’t leave until you’ve solved both problems. Well put. Sure, some things are complicated, but if you take it one piece at a time—solve the problems, put it back together

—you can’t believe the enterprise you can build, the life you can build, the skills you can build. Take it a piece at a time, master it, and then put it back together to solve it. 

**PUT IT ON PAPER**

Let me give you another tip on solving problems. This was helpful to me. Learn to solve them on paper. I learned this some time ago. 

You’ve got to commit some of your thoughts to paper. If you just deal out of your head all the time, it’s easy to make too many errors. You wouldn’t build a house out of your head. You take what’s in your head, put it on paper and work it out. Then you work from the document. Work from the paper. 

First of all, put it on paper. Take a piece of paper and just spend a little time outlining the problem. Instead of just thinking about it, put your thoughts down on paper. Most of the executives I work with around the world use this kind of strategy. Putting a problem on paper. It helps you to focus. It helps you to zero in. 

Now when you state the problem to the best of your ability, you just add this one question. Is that all of it? You say, well, we’re not to dwell on problems, no, we’re not to dwell on them, or live in them, but at least you have got to state them. Because you can’t solve them until you clearly define them. 

**THREE SIMPLE QUESTIONS**

Now, let me give you part of the answer to solving problems. 

Answers to solving problems fall into three simple questions. For problem solving, it’s important to go through these questions. 

**1. What Can I Do? **

Here’s the first one. What can I do to solve the problem? What can I do? Then you start developing what we call working papers. Working papers simply are doing your best. You say, well, here’s potential answer number one. That’s an answer. Potential answer number two is a possibility. And number three, that’s a possibility. You just start laying out possible solutions. Then go back and analyze these solutions. Number three? You’ve already come to the conclusion it

would take too long. Okay. Number two? Too big a question mark. 

Number one is probably it. My first inclination was right. Study that a little more and see if that’s it. Develop working papers. 

**2. What Can I Read? **

So the first step to solving problems is to write them down. The second step is to develop working papers on possible solutions, what you can possibly do. Now, if that doesn’t do it, here is the second question to ask. What can I read? Sure enough, there may be a book, there may be a text, there may be an audio program, there may be a video, there may be some form of an outline on your particular problem. 

If you went to the library, you might find a whole section on your problem. There’s bound to be some answers. So now you start going through the books, and start developing your reaction to what you’re reading. Just go through all the books, developing your analysis of what you’ve read. That’s the second question. What can I read? 

**3. Who Can I Ask? **

Here’s the third question. When solving a problem, who can you ask? Now, here’s the key. Don’t hesitate to ask. Let me give you the next clue: don’t ask first. If you always just ask, usually you don’t develop the skills in solving problems. What’s more valuable than the solution to a problem? Answer: the skills of solving problems. The skills offer more value than the answer. The answer to a problem is temporary. Skills in solving problems are permanent. So it’s not just answers we need. It’s skills we need. 

**THE FIVE ABILITIES**

Learn to concentrate on these five abilities. I call these the five abilities that help you skillfully attack the marketplace to do well. 

**1. Absorb**

Here’s the first ability. Develop the ability to absorb, the ability to soak in, take in, be like a sponge. Sitting in class or at the workplace sometimes it’s easy to daydream, to be preoccupied, to be somewhere else. 

I read a good article once in *Reader’s Digest*. The title was, 

“Wherever You Are, Be There.” I thought that was excellent. Be there. Concentration. Sports stars will tell you all you need is just a slight miss of concentration and they put one by your feet and there goes the championship. Just a slight slip of concentration. 

Now, it’s also important in learning extra skills to really pay attention. 

Absorb, take in. I have a friend who makes it as exciting when he goes to Acapulco and comes back to tell me about it as it is to go myself. It’s unbelievable. Let me tell you why. When he’s there, he doesn’t miss anything. He soaks it all up. His mind is like a movie projector that takes it all in, the sights, the sounds and the smells and the colors and the people, and what’s going on. He sees it all. 

Then he also has the gift of expression, so when he comes back he can tell you about it, word for word, detail for detail. When he talks, you can feel the water lapping at your feet. You can smell the aroma of the food. You can see the sights and sounds and the colors and the people. I mean, he’s got the gift to take it in and then the gift to share it. And those are extremely excellent skills to work on. 

Most people are trying to get through the day. I’ve got a better objective for you. Learn to get from the day. Not just get through it, get from it. Soak it up. Each day is a piece of the mosaic of your life. 

Don’t waste any. Treat it with care. See how much you can get from a day—how much advice, how much information, how much color, how much sight and sound to add to your worth and your wealth and your equity of mind. 

**2. Respond**

Here’s the next ability. Develop the skill to respond, the ability to be affected by what you see and hear and sense. Success is not just knowledge. Success is response to knowledge. Success is not just experience. Success is emotion created from experience. It’s the emotional part that plays such a major part in our life and our future and our success. 

Responding to life means to let sad things make you sad, to let happy things make you happy, to let puzzling things puzzle you. Let things that are difficult create difficulty for you. Respond. 

I’m the greatest guy in the world to take to the movies. I get affected by a good movie. I’m willing to go if they want to take me on a good journey. Good movie, good dialogue, something good to see, watch this whole story unfold, I’m willing to go. I forget everything and just go. Be affected by it. 

I was in Melbourne, Australia, and I saw an advertisement: “See *Dr. *

*Zhivago* on the Big Screen.” I thought, “I’ve got to go see it on the big screen.” They’ve got these little cracker-box theaters now, right? I like the big movie theaters with the drapes and the chandeliers and the balconies. I mean, that’s the movies\! These little cracker boxes leave a lot to be desired. But to see a movie in a proper movie theater on a big screen, I got enticed by it, and I’d seen *Dr. Zhivago*, I don’t know, probably a half a dozen times. I said, “I’ve got to go see it one more time on the big screen.” 

So I go, and sure enough this sweeping saga of the Russian Revolution, *Dr. Zhivago*, unfolds and I’m swept along by it all. But up until that particular time, I had always missed the significance of the end of the movie. This time I got it. The other times I’d missed it. 

Comrade General says, “Tanya, how did you come to be lost”? And she says, “I was just lost.” He says, “No, how did you come to be lost?” And she didn’t want to say. She said, “Well, my father and I were running through the city, it was on fire, the revolution had come and I was lost.” And Comrade General said, “No, Tanya, how did you come to be lost?” And she finally said, “While we were running, my

father let go of my hand, and I was lost.” That’s what she didn’t want to say. He let go. Comrade General says, “Tanya, that’s what I’ve been trying to tell you. I’m positive Komarovsky was not your real father. This man, Dr. Zhivago, that I knew well, I’m positive he was your father. I’ve been looking for you. I think I found you.” And he said, “Tanya, let me tell you something, if this man, your real father, had been there, he would never have let go of your hand.” 

And I got it—I got it that time\! Wow. The other times I’d missed it. I’m eating popcorn waiting for the movie to finish the other times, I guess. So that’s what I’m asking you to do. I’m asking you to get it, and I’m asking you to let it affect you, let it do things to you. It builds your emotional bank. 

**3. Reflect**

The third ability: Learn to reflect. Reflecting is an extra way of getting more value from what you know and what you’ve been through. 

Reflecting is going back over. 

Let me give you some good times to reflect. Take just a few minutes at the end of the day and go back over the day. Find a place, if you can, to be alone, and just go back and think through the day. Where have you been? What did you see? What did you hear? What did you feel? If you’ll just relive it, go back through it, I’m telling you it will add multiplied value to you. The day you’ve just been through will be more valuable for your future if you just go back through it. 

Take a few hours at the end of the week. Take hours at the end of the week, and minutes at the end of the day. Take hours at the end of the week, half a day at the end of the month, and a weekend at the end of the year. Those are called times to reflect. Now, why go back over, why run the tapes again? Let me tell you why, to make the past more valuable. 

It’s like color enhancers. The camera takes pictures of Jupiter on its flyby, but let me tell you what they do with those pictures. The computer has learned to enhance them with color so that they

become vivid and unique and our eyes get big and we take a look and we say, wow. That’s what will happen with your life. If you’ll take the time to review what’s going on, review the decision-making, review the people you’re with, review the actions you’re taking, the decisions you’re making, review all that stuff, go back through the feeling, I’m telling you, the color enhancers of your own mind will make your life more valuable. 

Now, why try to make your life valuable? Simple answer: to invest it in the future. We call that bright. We call that skillful, to make more out of your past, to have more value to invest in the future, instead of just trying to get through one more day, trying to get through one more week. It’s to get more out of your past and invest it in your future. When my father was about to turn 76, I said, “Dear father of mine, can you imagine how exciting it’s going to be to take the last 75 years of your life and invest them in your 76th?” That’s an extraordinary thing to learn, how to take more of you and invest it in the next conversation, invest it in the next decision, invest it in the next activity. 

**4. Act**

Now, here’s number four. Develop the ability to act, the ability to take action on your feelings and your knowledge. Disciplined action is what gives birth to ideas, enterprise and values. Without activity, ideas and dreams have no life. 

Disciplined activity is the most demanding of arts to take you where you want to go. Now, sometimes it doesn’t take much of a change of activity. Daily or weekly disciplines are those small changes of intelligent activity that take you in a better direction. 

Here’s a good way to look at it. Ten years from now you will surely arrive. The question is, where? Now is the time to fix the next 10

years. Fix a better course. Now, to unsophisticated people, what they do during the day doesn’t seem to matter. But to sophisticated people, it makes all the difference in the world. The books you read, the actions you take, the disciplines you engage in on a daily basis, 

those are the activities that are taking you somewhere, and all of us need to take a look at where our daily activities are taking us. 

The activity of learning, the activity of mind, health disciplines, wealth disciplines, culture disciplines, all values come from disciplines. 

Ideas put into disciplined activity create value. 

**5. Share**

The fifth ability in our personal development quest for skills that create success in the marketplace is the ability to share. Sharing is a unique human capacity. Sharing is a phenomenon, especially in the human experience. It seems when we share we are the bigger and better for it. 

It seems like if you share something and give it away, you’d have less. But it’s a paradox. What you share creates more for you. That’s why we call it a paradox. You’re not diminished by sharing. You’re increased. 

If you have a child and you love it dearly, and if a second child comes along must you now cut your love in half? The answer is no. 

From some strange, mysterious source comes an increased capacity. From sharing with the first, capacity and an awareness and uniqueness are increased. So that is what I would ask you to do, become gifted in sharing. 

There are many ways to share. One is by language, the gift of language. One of the most important studies for you is the study of communication, how to affect other people with words. 

**HAVE SOMETHING GOOD TO SAY**

Here are some steps toward sharing with good communication. 

Have something good to say. You can’t speak what you don’t know. 

Talking is like writing a check. You want to make sure you’ve got a verbal check that will cash when you get ready to talk. And here’s

the true power of communication. When what you say is only the tip of the iceberg of what you know. We call that power. I’m sure we’ve all been around people who quickly told us more than they knew. Do your homework. Have something good to share. Have something good to say. Communication is part of sharing. 

**SAY IT WELL**

Part of the gift of language is saying it uniquely. Winston Churchill had the unique ability to take the English language and send it into battle. The words he composed and the speeches he gave and the language and style gave such hope and uniqueness and structure to the free world that soon the enemy was defeated. But part of it was the structure of the language, the skill, the gift of saying things well. It is one of those incredible skills, saying it well. 

**READ YOUR AUDIENCE**

When you talk, you’ve just got to be interested enough to look and see how you’re doing. Learn to read your audience. I had to learn that. At first, I was so absorbed in what I was saying that I’m sure the audience could have left and I would have never known it. But I finally learned to look up to see what’s going on here, over here, in the back. That was an experience for me, learning to read, to see, to study the reflection of whoever you’re communicating with. That’s an art, a skill. 

**SAY IT WITH INTENSITY**

Words with strong feeling behind them change the meaning. Words can have power if they’re loaded with emotion and belief, courage, love, understanding, awareness, sympathy, concern, being touched

by somebody. If you put more of that into what you say, it’ll have an incredible effect. 

So share your knowledge. You can’t believe how well you can help somebody just by recommending a book. Recommend a poem. 

Share a word, a phrase. You say, “Hey, I just read this, and I think you’ll get a lot out of it.” Somebody reads it and comes back and says, “Hey, that had an impact on my life, and I’m glad you shared that with me.” Then you start getting compliments. 

It’s an incredible feeling when people tell you, “What you said made a difference for me.” But you don’t have to lecture in front of thousands of people to get that same feedback. All you have to do is recommend a book or share an idea. Somebody comes back and says, “That book got me started,” or “The things you told me at breakfast that morning, wow, I’ve been thinking about that and I’m making some changes.” You can experience this incredible pleasure that comes from sharing ideas. 

Remember, what you pour out creates a capacity for more. So pour out what you know. Pour out what you feel. Let go in a sharing way the good things that have come your way. That’s a major part of the skill in the marketplace of developing success, wealth and value. 

**THE PERSON YOU WISH TO BECOME**

So, develop skills that make you attractive to the marketplace. 

Develop the temperament and the attitude that make you attractive to the business world, the attitude and the temperament that make you a splendid husband, wife, father, mother, son, daughter, friend, coworker, business partner. Because, here’s what’s important: it’s not what you get that makes you valuable, it’s what you become that makes you valuable. 

One last phrase to consider in the quest for personal development: Promise is on the other side of price. For the promise, you must always pay the price. If you want the glory of success, the glory of a unique family, the glory and the recognition of a unique enterprise, the glory of a job well done, then you’ve got to pay upfront. And the discipline of developing skills for the marketplace is part of the pay. 

But once you get a taste of value, you don’t mind paying the discipline. I wish for you all these good things that come from paying the price. 



**THE JIM ROHN GUIDE TO**

**LEADERSHIP**

Leadership is the great challenge of today, in all fields: science, politics, industry, education, sales. And leadership will continue to be among our greatest challenges in the future. 

But I want to begin by recognizing one of the most challenging roles in leadership—parenting. Yes, one of the greatest challenges of leadership is parenting. Unless we take our children by the hand and strengthen the family foundation, the nation is shaky. Parenting is where it all begins. 

My father had a simple little rule. He said, “Son, if you get in trouble in school, when you get home, it’s double trouble.” Does that method sound familiar? Double trouble at home if you get in trouble at school. 

A lot of parents are hoping someone else will exercise the leadership role—teachers or the church or the school or the community—

somebody will take up the task of being the example of leadership. 

But this is a challenge for parents to take up themselves, to become leaders. 

**THE CHALLENGE OF LEADERSHIP**

So now, here’s what leadership is: The challenge to be something more than mediocre. It was said of Abraham Lincoln that when his mother died he was at her bedside, and her last words to him were:

“Be somebody, Abe.” And if that story’s true, he must have taken it to heart. Be somebody. That’s a good challenge. Be somebody. Be somebody wise. Be somebody strong. Strength is attractive. Be somebody kind. All of the attributes of leadership are a unique challenge. 

Leadership is the challenge to step up to a new level, a new dimension. Here’s what this new dimension has: opportunity and responsibility. But who wouldn’t want the responsibility along with the opportunity if it builds an extraordinary life? You wouldn’t want it any other way. 

There’s a whole new level of leadership, a new method. Here’s what it is called: Leadership by invitation. Not leadership by threat. Not leadership by aggravation. Not leadership by intimidation—that shows the weakness of the leader or shows ego at work instead of skills. Leadership by invitation. Invite somebody to a better way of doing things. 

Here’s what else it’s called: Leadership by inspiration. Inspire somebody to make the necessary changes to move up or to get the job done. As leaders, we inspire. As leaders, we entice. As leaders, we invite. Invite, entice, inspire, but not threaten. 

**BE STRONG BUT NOT RUDE**

Now here’s a real key: Learn to be strong but not rude. There’s always a thin line that you have to watch and make sure you don’t cross. Learn to be strong but not rude. Some people mistake rudeness for strength. Rudeness—we don’t need. Strength—we do need. 

**BE KIND BUT NOT WEAK**

The challenge is to be kind but not weak. Some people mistake kindness for weakness. And it’s a great mistake. Kindness isn’t weak. Kindness is a certain unusual strength. But don’t say, “I must be weak in order to be kind.” Sometimes you have to be unusually strong to be kind. Somebody coined the expression “tough love.” 

And that’s love that really tells the truth. Whatever has to be said has to be said. Kind but not weak. 

**BE BOLD BUT NOT A BULLY**

Learn to be bold but not a bully. We need to boldly seize the day, boldly seize the opportunity, boldly seize the chance. But we don’t need bullies. We don’t need anybody to push anybody around. 

**BE HUMBLE BUT NOT TIMID**

The challenge is to be humble but not timid. Some people mistake timidity for humility. Humility is a virtue. Timidity is an illness. It can be cured. It can be managed. If you’re timid, you’ve got to work on it. 

I’m telling you, it’s a weakness. It’s not a virtue. 

You must turn your timidity into strength. Keep working on it until finally you have driven it into such a small corner that it does not devastate your life anymore. Now you use it as a source of teaching. 

I used to be so shy and so timid, but I worked on it, and I worked on it, and I’ve driven it into such a small corner that it doesn’t dominate my life anymore. It’s still there, but it doesn’t dominate. That’s what’s important. 

But humility is a virtue. Expand your ability to understand the vastness of it all and how small we are in relation to everything. It’s humility that causes you to get on your knees and talk to a child without any fear of how you look. Humility is to understand that we humans are unique, but in the vast space of it all, we’re all pretty small. Yes, we know, but what we don’t know is so much greater than what we do know. 

**BE THOUGHTFUL BUT NOT LAZY**

We need to give thought, but we also need to take action. You need to dream without just being a dreamer. Head in the clouds, yes, dreaming lofty dreams, but feet on the ground. 

**BE PROUD BUT NOT ARROGANT**

Learn to be proud but not arrogant. That’s a challenge. There’s something to be said for team pride and community pride, company pride, personal pride. But don’t cross the line to where being proud becomes arrogance. Pride we need. Arrogance we don’t. Arrogance is usually the childish attempt to make up for lack of self-worth. The childish attempt to make up for lack of self-worth has a tendency to create arrogance. You know the worst kind of arrogance? Arrogance from ignorance. That’s the worst kind. If a guy’s smart and arrogant, we can tolerate that. But if a guy’s dumb and arrogant, that’s hard to take. 

**HAVE HUMOR WITHOUT FOLLY**

Learn to have humor without folly. It’s okay to tell funny stories, but the key in leadership is don’t be silly. There’s a difference between being silly and having humor. That’s the challenge of leadership. 

**THE BASIC LAWS OF LEADERSHIP**

So now, all leaders must learn the basic laws of leadership so they can use them as illustrations as well as use them for productivity. 

**THE LAW OF SOWING AND REAPING**

Here’s the first of the basic laws of leadership: Whatever you sow, you reap. Now here’s another way to put it on the positive side: In order to reap, you must sow. Reaping is reserved for those who sow, who plant. To deserve the harvest, you must plant the seed. Take care of it in the summer. Carefully harvest it and then do wise things with the harvest. 

Now, here’s the rest of the law of sowing and reaping. If you sow good, you reap good. If you sow bad, you reap bad. You can’t sow bad and hope for good. You can’t plant weeds and hope for flowers. 

It works both positive and negative. Here’s something else about the law of sowing and reaping. You don’t reap only what you sow. That’s important to understand. You reap much more than what you sow. If you just reaped what you sow, what’s the exercise for? No, we don’t reap only what we sow. We reap much more than what we sow. 

An important thing to understand about that is it works both positive and negative. The old prophet said, “If you sow the wind, you don’t reap wind, you reap a whirlwind.” You’ve got to be careful sowing the wind. It doesn’t come back as a wind. It comes back as a whirlwind. 

That’s on the negative side. But now it also works on the positive side. If you plant a cup of corn, how much do you get back, a cup? 

No, a bushel for the cup. You get back much more than what you plant. That’s the reason for planting—for the increase. 

Now here’s the next key to the law of sowing and reaping. 

Sometimes it doesn’t work at all. Everybody has to understand. The farmer plants the crop in the spring and takes care of it all summer. 

He’s an honorable man. Loves his family and is a decent citizen. But the day before he sends the combines into the field, a hailstorm comes along and beats his crop into the ground. And it’s gone. It’s lost. 

So this time it didn’t work. Now what must the farmer do? He’s got to decide whether to do it again or not. “Shall we take another chance the next spring?” We would advise him to do so even though he lost

everything in the last harvest, because, more often than not, you’ll have a harvest if you plant in the spring. There’s no guarantee, but it’s pretty good odds. It’s better than Las Vegas. Incredible\! The law of sowing and reaping. 

**THE LAW OF AVERAGES**

One of the most important basic laws of leadership to learn is the law of averages. If you do something often enough, you’ll get a ratio of results. Once you understand that, the world is yours. 

Let’s say you’re just getting started in sales and you talk to ten people. You talk to ten, and you get one. We now have what we call the beginning of a ratio. Talk to ten, nine say no, and one says, *Yes,* *I’ll buy your product. I’ll take your service. * Somebody says, “Well, one out of ten isn’t that good.” Well, you’re just getting started. 

Here’s what happens with the law of averages: Once it starts, it tends to continue. If you talk to ten and get one, chances are excellent that if you talk to ten more you’ll get another one. 

In baseball, we call it a batting average. Swing ten times, get a hit. 

Swing ten times more, get a hit. Nobody bats nine out of ten. You can make six million dollars a year and not bat nine out of ten, nor eight out of ten, nor seven out of ten, nor five out of ten, nor four out of ten, nor three out of ten. Some of these guys are getting five or seven million dollars a year batting two, three out of ten. You don’t have to be perfect here. All you have to do is understand the law of averages. 

Even if you’re only getting one out of ten, you can now start to compete. If you’ve been at it a long time, you can get nine out of ten. 

Even though I just joined and I can only get one out of the ten, I’m telling you if we have a contest I will beat you. You say, “Well, you just started. How could you beat me?” It’s very simple. If we have a

30-day or a 60-day contest, while you talk to ten and get nine, I’ll talk to one hundred and get ten. I win. Isn’t that clever? 

Here’s what I do if I’m new. I make up in numbers what I lack in skill. 

I make up in numbers what I first lack in skill. Now when my skills increase, I don’t have to do a hundred to get ten. Once you understand the law of averages, the chances are excellent that the ratios will work for you. 

Here’s what else is exciting: The law of averages can be increased. 

At first you only get one out of ten. But the better you get, the more skills you develop, and you can get two out of ten, and then three out of ten. And you don’t need more than two or three out of ten to get rich. The law of averages is one of the greatest studies to make. It’ll serve you well as a leader in your business career, your sales career, any kind of career. 

**THE 80/20 RULE**

There’s an old leadership rule that’s been around a long time. It says twenty percent of the people do eighty percent of the business, and eighty percent do twenty percent. This is something you don’t try to change or rearrange. It’s part of the deal. Somebody says, “Well, I’ll just fire the eighty percent.” No, because then, of whoever’s left, some of them will do eighty percent and eighty percent will do twenty percent. That’s not something you mess with. 

These laws are just something you work with, something you understand and work with. Twenty are going to do eighty. It works everywhere. Ask the minister of the church, “Who puts up the money here to support the church?” Twenty percent of the people pick up eighty percent of the tab, and eighty percent pick up twenty percent. 

Americans paying taxes—what’s the deal? Twenty percent pay eighty percent of the taxes, and eighty percent pay twenty percent of

the taxes to run the federal government. This is not something you mess with. This is something you work with till you understand it. 

Well, how do you work with The 80/20 Rule? Here’s what you’ve got to do. Part of it is time management. You can only give twenty percent of your time to the eighty percent because they’re only producing twenty percent. Now, you can give eighty percent of your time to the twenty percent. Remember, the pull is in the opposite direction. Guess who wants eighty percent of your time: The wrong group. 

This is not a moral question. It’s the wrong group in terms of productivity and effectiveness in your business, for your future. So what’s the answer to that? Here’s part of the answer. You can work individually with the twenty percent, but you can only work in a group setting with the eighty percent. But guess who wants your individual time: the eighty percent\! And you can’t do that. Mary says, “I’ve got a question, Mr. Rohn.” I say, “Look, we’re going to have a little training class on Saturday morning. Bring your question and I’ll answer it for everybody.” She says, “Okay.” Now sometimes it’s not that easy. It’s a little more challenging than that. But you’ve got the key now. Give eighty percent of your time to the twenty percent. 

**THE LAW OF FAITH**

An important basic law of leadership is the law of faith. Faith is the ability to see things that don’t yet exist. Faith, though, can turn difficulty into reality, positive reality. There are a few parts to The Law of Faith. 

**SEE IT AS IT IS**

First, faith is the ability to see it as it is. Faith doesn’t mind seeing it as it is because faith is a miracle worker. Faith does not ignore the

negative. Faith uses the negative because if there was no negative then there’d be no need for faith. If everything is okay, what do you need faith for? You need faith because it isn’t okay. If it’s ugly, then it’s ugly. If it isn’t working, then it isn’t working. If it’s a mess, then it’s a mess. It doesn’t hurt to call a mess a mess. You don’t need to fancy it up here. If it’s broke, then it’s broke. If it’s miserable, then it’s miserable. Faith doesn’t mind admitting that. Faith doesn’t mind seeing that. Seeing it as it is. That’s the beginning of faith. 

**SEE IT BETTER THAN IT IS**

Second, faith is the ability to see it better than it is. Can’t you see beyond the mess? The mess is for today. Can’t you look into tomorrow? The answer is, “Yes, I can look into tomorrow.” Humans have this incredible ability to look into tomorrow, to look into next week. So we not only have the ability to see it as it is—the beginning of faith—but also to see it better than it is. Dream the dreams, make the plans, visualize, use your imagination and see it better than it is. 

**MAKE IT BETTER THAN IT IS**

Now here’s a third part that turns faith into reality: make it better than it is. Faith now must be invested in the muscle. If you invest faith in the action, you can take any situation and make it better than it is. 

**DON’T SEE IT WORSE THAN IT IS**

Here’s something to watch out for in the beginning of faith. Don’t see it worse than it is. Don’t blow it out of proportion. Some people have this tendency to blow it all out of proportion. You say, “Well, it can’t be that bad.” If it’s bad, that’s how bad it is. You don’t need to multiply how bad it is by ten. That’s not necessary. See it just as it is. 

That’s the deal: as it is. Don’t see it worse than it is. 

**DON’T SEE IT FOR MORE THAN IT CAN BECOME**

Now here’s another unique key to faith. Don’t see it for more than it can become. There’s a thin line between faith and folly. Yes, it’s possible to see yourself as a millionaire, but not overnight. 

Somebody says, “Well, yes, I can see that.” Don’t see it for more than it can become in a reasonable period of time. Sure, if it dropped out of the sky overnight, but that’s not likely. But it’s still possible to be a millionaire and it’s still possible to be rich and wealthy, given a certain amount of time working with the law of averages and all the rest of the laws we’ve discussed. Don’t see it for more than it can become so that you move into folly instead of faith. Plenty is possible without being foolish in your faith exercise. 

**IT MIGHT BE WORSE THAN YOU FIRST SEE IT**

Keep in mind that it might be worse than you first see it. Sometimes you just look at the surface. You’d better look underneath. You’d better take a deeper look so that you can really see it as bad as it is. 

Not to overblow it now, but to make sure you see it as bad as it really is. 

**IT MIGHT BE FAR MORE IN THE FUTURE**

Don’t forget to give yourself a chance to see that it could be far more in the future than what you can first see. Take the first step of what you can see, but give yourself the chance to see it for more than what you first see. On a foggy night, if all you can see is a hundred feet, then walk that first hundred feet. Now you can see another hundred feet. You can’t see two hundred feet, but if you can see a hundred feet you walk the first hundred feet, then you can see another hundred feet. 

So take the early steps of faith. Whatever you can see as possible to become, start believing that, have faith in that. I’m telling you as that starts to take hold, you’ll be able to see it for more and for more and for more, and the possibilities will start to increase in your own imagination. 

**WORK WITH THE PEOPLE WHO DESERVE IT**

Life operates by deserve. So, in leading people, learn to work with the people who deserve it, not the people who need it. 

Now, you’ve got to set up objectives ahead of time to determine who deserves it. When you bring somebody into your enterprise, you just set up the ground rules. Make sure all the guidelines are clear when you set them up. Monitor results, accomplishments, then you know who deserves it. 

Don’t respond to need. Respond to who deserves. Now, remember the 80/20 rule, the pull is in the opposite direction. Guess who wants your help: usually the wrong people. It’s usually the people who need it, not the people who deserve it. But in an enterprise, you must learn to respond to the people who deserve, not the people who need. 

There are plenty of other places for your benevolence. But in your enterprise you must respond to the people who deserve. 

**TEACH PEOPLE HOW TO DESERVE IT**

Teaching people and moving them from need to deserve starts to accelerate their self-esteem. You can’t believe what a high the beginning of new self-esteem is. If a person hasn’t had it for years and years and they’ve been beaten down by their own philosophy, and they’ve been beaten down by everybody else, if you start them on the early steps of learning to deserve then that starts this process of self-esteem. Lead people step by step into self-esteem. And self-

esteem leads to action, action leads to progress, and progress leads to fortune. So work with the people who deserve it. And teach people how to deserve your time, how to deserve your help. 

**LET PEOPLE GROW AND DEVELOP**

Now, don’t expect the pear tree to bear apples. I mean, let people do whatever they can do. And let them change their mind. Let them grow and develop. Here’s what I’ve found: You cannot change people, but they can change themselves. The best you can do is to inspire, teach, pray and hope. That’s the best you can do. You can’t get in there and change them, but you can do your best to deliver the message that can create change if someone will accept it. If someone will do something about it, then take the early baby steps to get them started. Be happy with the smallest progress, give some rewards and a pat on the back and a big smile and say, “Mary, it’s going to work for you. You’ve taken these two steps. I’m telling you, if you can take two steps, you can take a hundred and two.” Wow\! 

**KNOW THAT THERE IS BOTH GOOD AND EVIL**

All leaders must teach the fact that there is both good and evil. We are all challenged to become the most of the good in us and the least of the bad. That’s the beginning of civilization—becoming the most of the good and the least of the bad. Character is a core element of leadership. 

Remember the story about the frog and the scorpion? The frog and the scorpion appear on the bank of the river at the same time, and the frog is about to jump in and swim to the other side. The scorpion sees what’s about to happen and engages the frog in conversation. 

He says, “Mr. Frog, I’m a scorpion and I can’t swim. Would you be so kind as to let me hop on your back? You swim across the river, and just deposit me on the other side. I’d be grateful.” The frog looks at

the scorpion and says, “No way. Scorpions sting frogs and kill them. 

I’d get out there halfway, you’d sting me, and I’d drown.” The scorpion said, “Mr. Frog, with your frog brain, you’re not thinking. If I stung you out there halfway, you’d drown and I’d drown. And I’m not interested in committing suicide. I just want to get to the other side. 

Please do me the favor.” The frog says, “Okay, that makes sense. 

Hop on.” The scorpion hops on the frog’s back, and the frog starts across the river. Sure enough, halfway across the river the scorpion stings the frog. They’re both in the water about to go down. The frog cannot believe what’s happened, and he says, “Why did you do that? 

I’m about to drown and die, but so are you. Why would you do that?” 

And the scorpion said, “Because I am a scorpion.” It’s his nature, his character. Make note of this: You can’t take a chance. You’ve got to know the scorpion. 

I learned in building an enterprise that there are some people you don’t need their productivity. You’re better off without their productivity because they’re scorpions in the fold. The old prophet said, “Beware of the foxes that spoil the vines.” The vineyard looks good, but you’d better look a little closer, the foxes are at work. And to be a good shepherd, to be a good father, to be a good mother, you’ve got to learn the story of the frog and the scorpion and the foxes that spoil the vines. 

**SIX ESSENTIAL TRAITS OF GOOD CHARACTER**

The following are what I believe to be the basics of good character. 

Miss one of these, and you’ll find a weak link in your character—one that may be your leadership’s undoing. 

**1. Integrity. ** Integrity is a good catchword that is similar to character but provides us with a different way of looking at the idea of character. The root of integrity means “whole” or “undivided,” and that’s a terrific way to help us understand what integrity is—an undivided life. For example, you don’t act one way in one situation

and another in a different situation. There is integrity and wholeness to your life. Living this way will build trust in your followers. Another use of the word integrity that provides insight for us is when the word is used in regard to a physical structure. A wall or a building that is strong and has no cracks is said to have integrity. The same could be said for great leaders. 

**2. Honesty. **It is regularly said that honesty is the best policy, but I would add that honesty is the only policy for great leaders. Think about it. Why do people hedge the truth? Usually for a few basic reasons: they are either afraid of the ramifications or they are trying to hide something. Either way, a lack of honesty results in the fact that you destroy the trust of those who follow you. Even if you tell them the truth, but they know you have lied to others, it will destroy the trust you had with them. They find themselves thinking, “If he will lie to them, will he lie to me?” 

I’ve never understood what people hope to accomplish by being dishonest. Eventually people come to know that you’re not honest in your dealings, and that is what you become known for. Your reputation is what your leadership is based on, though. When we’re honest and live transparently before our followers, they’re able to see us for who we are and make solid decisions to follow. 

**3. Loyalty. ** People of good character are loyal people. They have a

“stick-to-it” attitude when it comes to others. Anybody who knows human nature knows that people fail. It’s just a matter of time, no matter how talented someone is. A person of good character stays with their friends even in the downtimes. Anyone can be friends with others when times are good. People of good character stay with their friends when they need them most. How this translates into making you a good leader is this: People want to follow a leader who will stretch them beyond where they are now, but who’ll also allow them to try—and to fail. When we are loyal to our followers, they’ll be loyal to us and make every effort to succeed on our behalf and on behalf of the organization. There are few things that strengthen the leader-follower bond more than when a leader shows their loyalty to a follower in need. 

**4. Self-Sacrifice. **Lee Iacocca became a legend when he said that he’d bring Chrysler back from the brink of bankruptcy and would take only a dollar a year in pay. This was a classic example of a leader sacrificing for the followers. It also showed his understanding of empathizing with the average line worker. As a result, the workers of Chrysler rewarded him with an incredible following as they built Chrysler into one of the world’s leading car companies. What is it about self-sacrifice that breeds followers? Followers don’t mind putting in the hard work. They don’t even mind a leader making more money or reaping benefits from their work. What followers do mind, though, is when the leader is using them for personal gain. People of good character don’t use other people, period. So when a leader shows sacrifice of personal gain, it says to the followers that they are willing to come alongside of them—and followers reward that almost universally. A person of good character shows that they can give up personal gain for the good of the whole. 

**5. Accountability. **People of good character don’t mind accountability. In fact, they welcome it. This is the act of allowing others to have a say in your life, to speak to you straight about your life and conduct. The brutal truth is that we have blind spots and need other people to be in close to us so we can advance down the road of success. The need for accountability doesn’t prove lack of character. Rather, it proves the presence of character. G.K. 

Chesterton said, “Original sin is the only philosophy empirically validated by 3,500 years of human history.” The person of good character knows this and invites others to speak into their life. 

Followers grow tired of leaders who will have nothing to do with accountability. They don’t mind leaders who make mistakes, but they do mind leaders who don’t take responsibility for their mistakes by being accountable. When we allow ourselves to be held accountable, our followers know that we are serious about keeping our own house in order, and thus will do a good job in leading the rest of the organization. 

**6. Self-Control. **The ability to make decisions—good decisions—

about what we will and will not do with our actions is at the core of

what we become in regard to our character. There will be plenty of options to participate in things that are not moral. Everybody has temptations, but a person of good character knows to exercise self-control—literal control over their choices. When people don’t exercise self-control, they sabotage their ability to lead. People lose respect for them and will follow less, if at all. Self-control is the ability to choose to do the things we should, and to refrain from doing the things we shouldn’t. When we exhibit self-control, we again build trust in our followers. They respect us and want to follow us. 

**STRENGTHEN YOUR CHARACTER**

We are all born with clean slates. As we grow, there are many influences that shape our character—our parents, teachers, friends and choices all mold that inner character. The good news is, no matter where you are right now, you can decide that your character will grow stronger. You can choose to be around those people who will challenge you to become better. You can choose to put positive materials into your mind and heart. You can begin making choices that reflect a change in lifestyle, and thus, in character. No one is

“stuck.” You can change—if you want to\! 

**SKILL DEVELOPMENT**

As we talked about at the very beginning, leadership is the challenge to be something more than average. That requires developing our skills. Skill development is important in and of itself, if for no other reason than the fact that as humans, we were designed to grow. 

**Skill development is important because:** **1. It brings us fulfillment. **As we grow in our skills, we develop a deep sense of personal satisfaction knowing we’ve learned

something new, and that not only did we learn it, but we also applied it successfully. 

**2. It will advance our career. **As much as many modern-day people would like to believe that there shouldn’t be competition, there always will be. And, believe it or not, the winner is usually the person who has honed their skills. Be it on the field or in the boardroom, the winner is usually the person with the higher level of skills. 

**3. It will help you help others, and this is what life is all about,** **isn’t it? **One of the things a skilled leader can do is to help people see themselves better than they are. And I think that goes hand in hand with what Zig Ziglar says, “You can get everything you want out of life if you help others get what they want out of life.” When you develop skills, you’re able to help others, and that helps you in the long run. 

**THE SKILLS GREAT LEADERS MUST MASTER**

To close, let’s go over the six skills that all great leaders must master. 

**1. The Ability to be Inspirational. ** A leader needs to be able to inspire others. Yes, we need to hit the mind with our message, but we also need to stir the heart and its passions. The leader who is only rational will have bored followers who aren’t inspired to go anywhere. The leader who is only emotional will have excited followers who don’t know where to go\! It takes both. Develop your ability to inspire your followers and make them excited to be with you and the organization. Help them see the big picture that shows they are making a difference. 

**2. Good Communication—Especially Vision. ** Great leaders are those who can take the vision they have and communicate it in ways that their followers can easily understand, internalize and own. Many leaders have great vision but fail to lead their organizations

anywhere. Vision that is only kept in your mind is not vision, but a dream. Vision communicated clearly, memorably and passionately, so that people can grasp it and follow, is what will take your group, whether large or small, to the next level and beyond. 

**3. The Ability and Will to Delegate. ** Great leaders know that they can’t do it all on their own. They may be able to do a lot on their own, but they’ll never achieve the powerful impact that is possible until they learn to delegate, and then choose to do so. There is an old proverb that says, “One can put 1,000 to flight and two can put 10,000 to flight.” When we delegate to capable people, we increase our effectiveness and impact exponentially. Unfortunately, too many leaders don’t attain greatness because they refuse to let anyone else do anything. Learn to delegate—to the right people—and you’ll be moving in the right direction. 

**4. The Ability to Teach Important Principles. ** When you look at great leaders in history, you see men and women who are able to teach. Christ, the greatest leader in history \(his organization thrives in every country 2,000 years after his death\), primarily led people by teaching them with stories. He knew that he would have to transfer concepts to his followers that they could remember and apply. In fact, they called him “teacher.” A good example of a modern-day business leader who used teaching is Jack Welch, former CEO of General Electric. When Welch began leading GE, it had a market cap of $4 billion. Before he retired, it had reached as high as $400

billion. Now, that is a return\! And what was at the core of his leadership? Teaching. GE had its own university long before it was vogue for companies to do so. He knew that people needed to be taught, and Welch spent many hours teaching there himself. 

**5. The Ability to Set Goals, Strategies and a Course of Action. **

The leader is responsible for a few key areas. Vision is one. The leader is also responsible for setting the goals of the organization. 

They must determine \(with the help of others\) what the team will shoot for. They need to be big enough to stretch the followers, but realistic enough so as not to discourage them. The leader must also set strategy, again, with the help of others. When they see where the

organization must go, they must also plot the map to get there, at least in a big-picture sense. Managers can take care of the rest, but the leader is responsible for giving the general strategic direction. 

Lastly, the leader must set the course of action, defining behaviors of the organization that will be acted upon. Setting the goals will give your team what it needs to shoot for, defining the strategy will show them how to get there, and setting the course of action will show them what to do while carrying out the strategy. 

**6. Keep People Focused on the Goal. ** Followers operate on a day-to-day basis. They get tasks done that need to be done for that day or week, or even quarter. Leaders are different. They are big-picture people. They know that the organization will outlive them, and because of that, the perspective must be for the good of the organization, not just the individuals. They must see where the end is. The Japanese business community is renowned for setting 100-year goals. We Americans think 20-year goals are looking to the future—and they are—but 100-year goals? Incredible. So, leadership involves not only setting a course for today, but also further into the future. Skilled leaders have learned not only how to inspire those following to catch a vision and pursue it, but they’ve also learned how to paint a vivid picture of the results that will continue to motivate them to accomplish the goals of the organization, long after they are gone. And when they have created a beginning and defined the end, then they are ready to plot the road between. 

Remember, you can always increase your skills. Even if you just increase them a little bit, you will increase your effectiveness and your impact as a leader significantly. Even the smallest of change in a trajectory will mean a large change in distance. 



**THE JIM ROHN GUIDE TO GOAL**

**SETTING**

Goal setting is a subject that altered my life forever. I hadn’t known my mentor, Mr. Earl Shoaff, for very long when one day he said to me, “Mr. Rohn, let me see your current list of goals. I’ve had a lot of experience and I’ve been out here for a while, so let’s go over them and maybe I can really give you some good ideas.” And I said, “I don’t have a list.” He said, “Well, if you don’t have a list of your goals, I can guess your bank balance within a few hundred dollars.” And he did. 

That got my attention. I said, “You mean my bank balance would be a lot bigger if I learned how to set goals?” He said, “Drastically bigger.” So, I finally said, “Hey, I want to learn how to set goals.” 

It is a fantastic skill to develop, how to design your own future. A life best lived is a life by design. Not by accident, and not by just walking through the day careening from wall to wall and managing to survive. 

That’s okay. But if you can start giving your life dimensions and design and color and objectives and purpose, the results can be absolutely staggering. 

**USE YOUR IMAGINATION**

Goal setting gives you the chance to experience the power of your imagination. Think about it. Imagination builds cities. Imagination conquers disease. Imagination develops careers. Imagination sets up relationships. Imagination is where all tangible values and intangible values begin. So what you’ve got to learn to do is use this powerful resource. 

Tapping this resource of imagination for goal setting involves thinking about your future, thinking about tomorrow or the rest of the day, 

thinking about the rest of the year or five years or 10. You can use your imagination to start prospecting for the future, for what could be possible for you. 

**FIVE THINGS THAT AFFECT US**

Before we really get into goal setting, I want to outline five primary things that affect all of us. 

**1. The Environment**

It doesn’t hurt to make a simple contribution to the environment. Pick up a piece of trash and throw it in the receptacle. If everybody did that, what a better world it would be. A little contribution costs nothing. If everybody contributed, what a difference it would make\! 

**2. Events**

Events affect us—some small, some big, some personal, some national, some global. Think of any big event of local, national or global significance. Those kinds of events affect us all. There are small events and daily events and family events and community events. We’re all affected by events. 

**3. Knowledge**

We’re affected by whatever we know or don’t know. Here’s a good phrase to jot down: Ignorance is not bliss. Ignorance is tragedy. 

Ignorance is devastation. Ignorance creates lack. Ignorance creates disease. Ignorance will shorten your life. Ignorance will empty your life and leave you with the husks, nothing to account for. No, ignorance is not bliss. 

Here’s another note to make: What you don’t know will hurt you. 

What you don’t know will tragically affect your life. What you don’t know will leave your life empty. What you don’t know will leave you without a relationship. We’re all affected by knowledge, whether we know or whether we don’t know. That’s why you’ve got to read the books. Remember, the book you don’t read won’t help. 

**4. Results**

We’re affected by results. Whether it’s financial results or personal results or social results, we’re all affected by results. Disciplines undone in the future give us poor results. Disciplines managed well give us good results. 

**5. Our Dreams**

We’re affected by our dreams, our vision of the future. 

**THE PULL OF THE FUTURE**

You want to make sure that the greatest pull on your life is the pull of the future. Some people live in the past and let their life be continually pulled and influenced by the past. Yes, we must remember the past and review the past to make it useful to invest in the future. But here’s the key: Make sure that the greatest pull on your life is the pull of the future. 

Now, if you’re skimpy on your dreams or if you’re skimpy on your objectives and your purposes, if all of that isn’t very well planned, then that doesn’t pull very hard. You might have more of a tendency to be pulled by the past or to be pulled apart by events or circumstances or to be pulled apart by distractions. So in order to save yourself from being pulled apart by distractions or pulled back to the past, you want to start, right now, really designing the future so that the greatest part of your attention and focus pulls you forward into the future to accomplish your goals. 

**STRONG DREAMS**

Goals are like a magnet—they pull. And the stronger they are, the more purposeful they are, the bigger they are, the more unique they are, the stronger they pull. 

Excellent goals and high dreams pull you through all kinds of down days, down seasons. They pull you through a winter of discontent. 

They pull you through distraction on every side. Strong, powerful dreams, like a magnet, pull you through. Strong dreams and goals pull you through a disaster. Some people get swallowed by the disaster because they have nothing on the other side of the disaster to pull them through. A bad day can almost overwhelm you if you don’t have something really purposeful to go for on the other side of that day, on the other side of the difficult time, on the other side of the down time. 

If you’ve got plenty out there to attract and pull, it’ll pull you through all these things and very little of it will attach itself to you. You’ll be able to get through some of the most difficult times if you have this spectacular vision ahead of you of where you’re going and what you’re going to accomplish. Getting through will be easier. 

**LEARNING TO SET GOALS**

Once I learned to set goals, it transformed my life forever. It’s an incredible experience. When I travel around the world and sit on an airplane, I say I dreamed about this one day. I used to go to the airport and watch the planes fly away, and I said, “One of these days I’ll be on one of those planes.” I dreamed about it. 

I dreamed about the other side of the world. I’d never been to Italy, but I dreamed about it. I’d never been to Israel, but I dreamed about it. I’d never been to South Africa, but I dreamed about it. I’d never been to Australia, but I dreamed about it. And sure enough, step by step, and country by country, and flight by flight, I started checking them off my list. It was the most exhilarating feeling. Powerful to set those goals, reach out there into the future, design something to the best of your ability, refine it as you go, tear it up periodically if you want to, set a whole new list. It’s your life. It’s your future. 

**THREE COMPONENTS OF POWERFUL GOALS**

I’ve often said that the major reason for setting a goal is for what it makes you do to accomplish it. This will always be a far greater value than what you get. That is why goals are so powerful. They are part of the fabric that makes up our lives. 

Goal setting provides focus, shapes our dreams and gives us the ability to home in on the exact actions we need to take in order to get everything in life we desire. Goals are exciting because they provide focus and aim for our lives. Goals cause us to stretch and grow in ways we never have before. In order to reach our goals, we must become better. We must change and grow. 

Powerful goals have three components:

They must be inspiring. 

They must be believable. 

They must be goals you can act on. 

When your goals inspire you, when you believe and act on them, you will accomplish them\! 

**LONG-TERM VISION**

Goals also provide long-term vision in our lives. We all need lots of powerful, long-range goals to help us get past short-term obstacles. 

Life is designed in such a way that we look long term and live short term. We dream for the future and live in the present. Unfortunately, the present can produce many hard obstacles. Fortunately, the more powerful our goals \(because they are inspiring and believable\), the more we will be able to act on them in the short term and guarantee that they will actually come to pass. 

**KEY ASPECTS OF GOAL SETTING**

So, let’s take a closer look at the topic of goal setting and see how we can make it forceful yet practical. What key aspects should we learn and remember when studying and writing our goals? I believe there are four main areas of emphasis:

**1. Evaluation and Reflection**

The only way we can reasonably decide what we want in the future and how we will get there is to first know where we are right now and what our level of satisfaction is for where we are in life. With our focus on goal setting, the first order of business is for each of us to set aside some serious time for evaluation and reflection. 

**2. Dreams and Goals**

What are your dreams and goals? Not related to the past or what you think you can get, but what you want. Have you ever really sat down, thought through your life values and decided what you really want? This isn’t what someone else says you should have or what culture tells us successful people do or have. These are the dreams and goals born out of your own heart and mind, goals unique to you and that come from who you were created to be and gifted to become. 

**3. SMART Goals**

SMART means Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic and Time-sensitive. 

**Specific: **Don’t be vague. Exactly what do you want? 

**Measurable: **Quantify your goal. How will you know if you’ve achieved it or not? 

**Attainable: **Be honest with yourself about what you can reasonably accomplish at this point in your life while taking into consideration your current responsibilities. 

**Realistic:** It’s got to be doable, real and practical. 

**Time: **Associate a time frame with each goal. When should you complete the goal? 

**4. Accountability**

Think of the word *accountable*. It means to give an account. When someone knows what your goals are, they help hold you accountable. Whether it is someone else trying to reach the same goal with you or just someone you can give the basic idea to, having a person who can hold you accountable—an accountability partner—

will give you another added boost to accomplishing your goals. 

So, evaluate and reflect. Decide what you want. Be SMART. Have accountability. When you put these four key pieces together, you put yourself in a position of power to catapult toward achieving your goals and the kind of life you desire. 

**EVALUATION AND REFLECTION**

The basis for knowing where we want to go is knowing where we came from and where we are. It is also knowing how well we have done achieving things we have previously set our eyes on. This is the essence of evaluation and reflection. We need to understand how to look at what we have done and then use that as a platform for what we want to do next. 

The process of evaluation is relatively simple but can be varied a bit. 

The important point is having a process. Here is the basic process for evaluation and reflection:

**1. Find a Quiet Place**

Reflection is best done away from distraction. It gives your mind space to think. 

**2. Take a Regular Time**

Whether it is once a week, every other week, once a month or quarter, be sure to set aside a regular time at regular intervals to

evaluate and reflect. 

**3. Look Back**

Look at what you have accomplished and where you are. Be specific. Be truthful. Be ruthlessly honest. 

**4. Write It Down**

Keep a record. This gives you the chance at the next stage of evaluation to see exactly where you were last time and keeps it as objective as possible. 

**5. Look Forward**

Set your next goal. Stretch yourself according to what works for you. 

That is the basic process of evaluation and reflection. If you have not done this before, then this will get you going. Be sure to follow the general idea and set aside time for your evaluation and reflection. 

**WHY EVALUATE? **

Now, the purpose of evaluation is twofold. First, it gives you an objective way to look at your accomplishments and your pursuit of the vision you have for your life. Second, it shows you where you are so you can determine where you need to go. In other words, it gives you a baseline from which to work. 

We have all heard the quote, “The unexamined life is not worth living.” To evaluate and reflect brings us face to face with who we are and what we have become. More important, it allows us the time to dream and create a vision for what we want to become. Only when we take time out of our busy schedules can we get into the state of mind and quietness of heart we need in order to find that inner place where we see what we are and what we can become. 

Those who never take time to evaluate and reflect will blow to and fro through this life, living by the forces of culture, circumstances, 

societal pressures and, unfortunately, personal weaknesses. 

In contrast, those who take the time to evaluate will find they are like an oak tree in a storm: They have a firm foundation, they know where they are going, they know how to get there, and, ultimately, they will get there no matter what comes their way\! 

I strongly encourage you to take a couple of hours this week to evaluate and reflect. See where you are and note it in your journal so that as the months progress and you continue a regular time of evaluation and reflection, you’ll see just how much ground you have gained—and that will be exciting\! 

**ESTABLISHING DREAMS AND GOALS**

One of the amazing things we have been given as humans is the unquenchable desire to have dreams of a better life. Even better, we also have the ability to establish goals to live out those dreams. 

Think of it: We can look deep within our hearts and dream of a better situation for ourselves and our families, of a secure financial future and healthy emotional or physical states, and certainly of deeper spiritual lives. But what makes this even more powerful is that we have also been given the ability to take action and pursue those dreams. Not only can we pursue them, but we possess the cognitive ability to actually lay out a plan and strategies—to set goals—to achieve those dreams. Powerful\! 

**WHAT ARE YOUR DREAMS AND GOALS? **

Now let me clarify something here about your dreams and goals: This isn’t about what you already have or what you have done. This is about what you want. 

Have you ever taken the time to truly reflect, to listen quietly to your heart, to see what dreams live within you? Your dreams are there, everyone has them. They may live right on the surface or be buried deep from years of others telling you they were foolish, but they are there. Back when I met Mr. Shoaff, he put me to work by asking the hard questions that got me excited about my dreams, and he helped me translate that excitement into strategic action to pursue all that I wanted. Now I’m going to walk you through the same disciplines that will help unleash the power of the dreams inside each of you. 

**LISTEN TO YOURSELF**

So how do we know what our dreams are? This is an interesting process and relates primarily to the art of listening. This is not listening to others; it is listening to yourself. If we listen to others, we hear their plans and dreams, and, at times, others will try to put their plans and dreams on us. If we listen to others, we can never be fulfilled. We will only chase elusive dreams that are not rooted deep within us. 

Instead, we must listen to our own hearts to hear the dreams born out of the passions and desires we each uniquely possess. Quiet yourself and listen. Just like when you are quiet enough to hear your own heart beating within your chest, your dreams have their own rhythm beating within you. All you have to do is get quiet enough to hear the beat. 

Now let’s take a look at some practical steps and thoughts on listening to our hearts and connecting to our dreams. 

**TAKE TIME TO BE QUIET**

Taking the time to be quiet is something we don’t do enough in this busy world. We rush, rush, rush and are constantly listening to noise

all around us. We must not get faked out by just being busy. Instead, we must constantly ask ourselves the question, “Busy doing what?” 

In other words, are the activities you are participating in moving you toward your goals? If not, then work to eliminate those things and replace some of that time with quiet. 

The human heart was meant to have times of quiet reflection, allowing us to peer deep within ourselves. It is when we do this that our hearts are set free to soar and take flight on the wings of our own dreams. Schedule some quiet “dream time” this week. No other people. No cellphone. No computer. Just you, a pad, a pen and your thoughts. 

Think about what really thrills you. When you are quiet, think about those things that really get your blood moving. What would you love to do, either for fun or for a living? What would you love to accomplish? What would you try if you were guaranteed to succeed? 

What big thoughts move your heart into a state of excitement and joy? When you answer these questions, you’ll feel terrific because you’re in the “dream zone.” It is only when we get to this point that we can truly realize and begin to experience what our dreams are. 

**MAKE A LIST AND PRIORITIZE**

Write down all of your dreams as you have them. Don’t think of any as too outlandish or foolish—remember, you’re dreaming\! Let your thoughts and pen fly as you take careful record. 

Now look at your list and prioritize those dreams. Which are most important? Which are most feasible? Which would you love to do the most? Put them in the order you will actually try to attain them. 

Remember, we are always moving toward action, not just dreaming. 

Why am I asking you to take part in this exercise? It’s because life is too short not to pursue your dreams. At the end of your life, all you

will be able to do is look backward. You can reflect with joy or regret. 

And we all know that joy from discipline weighs ounces while regret weighs tons. 

Those who dream, who set goals and act on them, are those who live lives of joy and have a sense of peace when they near the end of their lives. They will have finished well and possess a sense of pride and accomplishment, not only for themselves but also for their families. That feeling is priceless\! 

**Remember: **These are the dreams and goals born out of your heart and mind, goals unique to you, and they come from who you were created to be and gifted to become. Your specific goals are what you want to achieve because they will make your life joyful and bring fulfillment for both you and your family. 

**SET SMART GOALS**

I really like the acronym SMART \(Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic and Time-sensitive\), one of the key aspects of goal setting I mentioned earlier, because we want to be smart when we set our goals. We want to intelligently decide what our goals will be so that we can actually accomplish them. We want to set the goals that our heart conceives, that our mind believes and that our bodies will carry out. Let’s take an even closer look at each of the components of SMART goals. 

**SPECIFIC**

Goals are no place to waffle. They are no place to be vague. 

Ambiguous goals produce ambiguous results. Incomplete goals produce incomplete futures. When we are specific, we harness the power of our dreams and set forces into action that empower us to

achieve our goals. We then know exactly what it is we are shooting for—there is no question. 

As we establish our priorities and manage our time, we do it for a specific goal, to achieve the results we expect. There is no wondering or guessing. The future is locked into our minds, and we see it—specifically—and that is powerful\! Never underestimate just how important it is to have very specific, concrete goals. They act as magnets that draw you toward them. A SMART goal is specific. 

**MEASURABLE**

Always set goals that are measurable—I would say “specifically measurable” to take into account our principle of being specific as well. Our goals should be such that we know when we are advancing and by how much. Whether it is by hours, pounds, dollars or some other scale, we should be able to see exactly how we are measuring up as we journey through life using our goals. Imagine if you didn’t measure your goals. You would never know which way you were going, or even if you were going anywhere. A SMART goal is measurable. 

**ATTAINABLE**

One of the detrimental things many people do—and they do it with good intentions—is to set goals that are unattainable. While it’s very important to set big goals that cause your heart to soar with excitement, it is also imperative to make sure they are attainable. 

So what does it mean to be attainable? An attainable goal is one that is both realistic and doable in a shorter period of time than what you have to work with. Now, when I say “attainable,” I don’t mean easy. 

Our goals should be set so that they are just out of our reach, so that

they challenge us to grow as we reach forward to achieve them. A SMART goal is attainable. 

**REALISTIC**

The root word of *realistic* is *real*. A goal has to be something that we can reasonably make “real” or a “reality” in our lives. There are some goals that are simply not realistic. You have to be able to say, even if it is a tremendously stretched goal, that it is entirely realistic—that you could make it. You may have to say that it will take X, Y and Z to do it, but if those happen, then it can be done. 

I’m in no way saying you shouldn’t have a big goal, but that goal must be realistic. This is, to a great degree, up to the individual. For one person, a goal may be realistic, but for another, unrealistic. I would encourage you to be very honest with yourself as you do your planning and evaluation. It might be good to get a friend to help you, as long as that friend is by nature an optimist and not a pessimist. 

This can go a long way toward helping you know what is realistic. 

Knowing that perhaps you could use a bit of help differentiating between attainable and realistic, here is an example: Let’s say you are overweight and need to lose 150 pounds to get to your ideal weight. Is that goal attainable? Yes, if you also make it realistic. For example, it isn’t realistic to think you can do it in five months. 

Eighteen to 24 months would be more realistic \(with hard work\). 

Thus, losing 150 pounds in two years is both attainable and realistic, while losing 150 pounds in five months is neither attainable nor realistic. A SMART goal is realistic. 

**TIME**

Every goal should have a time frame attached to it. Life is much more productive for us as humans because there is a time frame

connected to it. Could you imagine how much more procrastination would happen if people never died? We’d just never “get around to it.” We could always put it off. 

One of the powerful aspects of a great goal is that it has an end, a time in which you are shooting to accomplish it. You start working because you know there is an end, and as time goes by, you work because you don’t want to get behind. As the deadline approaches, you work diligently because you want to meet that deadline. It’s a good idea to break a big goal down into measured time frames. Set smaller goals and work them out in their own time. A SMART goal has a timeline. 

**ACCOUNTABILITY**

Now let’s look at how to apply the SMART test to your goals and ensure they are powerful. 

As a contract with yourself or someone else, accountability is a vital key in the goal-setting process. In those early days, Mr. Shoaff held me accountable for my progress on the goals I had set. He asked those hard questions that helped motivate me to continuously work on achieving my dreams. Accountability puts some teeth into the process. If a goal is set and only one person knows it, does it really have any power? Many times it doesn’t. At the very least, it isn’t as powerful as if you had one or more people who will hold you accountable to your goal. 

Accountable means to give an account of your actions to yourself or another person. *Accountability* is a very broad word, yet accountability is essentially follow-up. When someone knows what your goals are, they follow up and hold you accountable by asking you to “give an account” of where you are in the process. Human nature is such that when we know someone else is going to ask us about it, we are much more motivated to get it done—if for no other

reason than we don’t want to look lazy and uncommitted to those we are accountable to. This is why having an accountability partner is so important. 

In the basic sense, there are two kinds of accountability: internal and external. 

**INTERNAL ACCOUNTABILITY**

Internal accountability is essentially the level of integrity you maintain not only throughout the evaluation process but also in life. It means that when you look at yourself, you judge yourself with honesty. This is where you hold yourself accountable to doing what you said you would do. If you’ve messed up, say, “I’ve messed up,” but if you’ve done well, then you can celebrate your progress. Let the internal accountability prod you and spur you on to greater action in pursuit of your achievements. 

So, first and foremost, it is our responsibility to hold ourselves accountable. We answer to ourselves. We take charge of ourselves. 

How do we do that? Here are a few ideas:

**1. **Write down your goals so they become “objective.” You can’t go back and say, “That wasn’t really my goal.” 

**2. **Be ruthlessly honest with yourself when you assess whether or not you have met the goal. Of course, if you were specific in setting your SMART goals, you won’t have much wiggle room here anyway. 

**3. **If you fall short of your goal, or if you are falling short while on the way, knuckle down and hold yourself accountable to do what it takes to make up the ground so that you can hit that goal\! 

**4. **Set a time frame in which you will evaluate your progress and hold yourself accountable. 

**EXTERNAL ACCOUNTABILITY**

The second aspect of accountability is that it is external. Find someone else or a group of others to hold you accountable. When we commit to giving an account to someone else for our actions and goals, we take it to the next level. 

Now let me say that the external part of accountability will not work without the internal aspect. If you are not honest with yourself, then you will probably not be honest with others. Asking someone to hold you accountable and then knowing you won’t be completely honest with them will never work. 

Having an accountability partner or an outside source of accountability is a powerful force if done right. Here are a few things to keep in mind as you set up an accountability partner: **1. **Choose someone who cares about you but can be tough and honest with you. They need to care about you—and you have to know and feel that care—because you become vulnerable by making yourself accountable to them. They need to be tough and honest, though, because you don’t want to have them shy away from telling you to get on the ball when you’re slacking, getting behind or not doing the job. I think the expression “tough love” would fit appropriately here. In essence, they love us enough to be honest with us about our progress. 

**2. **Tell them specifically what your goals are. 

**3. ** Commit to being honest with them. 

**4. **Give them permission to speak words of encouragement, as well as words of challenge when the situation calls for it. 

**5. **Agree on a reasonable time frame in which you will allow them to evaluate your progress and hold you accountable. 

**6. ** Follow up on their words when they challenge you or call you to action. 

Accountability can be a tremendous thing. There is an old proverb that says one can put a thousand to flight, but two can put 10,000 to flight. When we have someone holding us accountable, we bring others onto our team who will make us stronger, who will make us soar higher and who will cause our lives to be much richer because of their involvement. 

Take a moment and really consider who you will make yourself accountable to in the pursuit of your goals. Now, go back through the words above and begin to work this process out in your own life. You will be extraordinarily glad you did. 

**THE CHALLENGE**

Let your goals challenge you to become a unique person of incredible dimensions, not necessarily in anyone else’s eyes, but in your own eyes. 

It doesn’t matter whether someone thinks I’m short or tall, but it matters if I stand tall in my own eyes—because I know my disciplines, I know what I’m doing, I know whether I’m doing it or not doing it. It doesn’t have to be published in some local paper, as long as I know that I’m paying the price and that I deserve the applause and I deserve the prize. That’s what’s exciting. That’s why this goal setting is so important. It challenges you to grow. It challenges you to become more than you are, to move up to the next level. And that’s key. 



**THE JIM ROHN GUIDE TO**

**COMMUNICATION**

Effective communication is a critical component of mastering success. By mastering the art of communication, you’ll increase every level of performance in your life. I’ve often said that if you just communicate, you can get by. But if you communicate skillfully, you can work miracles—miracles in your family relationships, your business relationships and your friendships. Take advantage of every opportunity to practice your communication skills so that when important occasions arise, you will have the gift, the style, the sharpness, the clarity and the emotions to affect other people. What a unique opportunity to touch others with something small but powerful—our words. 

Now, before we get to the fundamentals of effective communication, there’s some groundwork to be laid. You see, preparation is the key to good communication. You’ve got to make deliberate, consistent effort to keep putting into your head, and putting into your heart and soul, valuable information from your life experiences. You can’t speak that which you don’t know. You can’t relate what you don’t have. You can’t give out what hasn’t come in. So the first key to good communication is a consistent way to gather information, knowledge, experience, and then remember it, store it, and have it available so that you can use it. And preparation is the key. 

**PREPARE TO COMMUNICATE**

Now to prepare for good communication, I’ve got four words for you. 

Here they are:

**1. Interest**

Sharpen your curiosity and your interest in life and people. Those are the big subjects: life and people. What about life? The questions

you might have about life and the mysteries of life. What about people and human behavior? People ask me, “Mr. Rohn, when you go to Russia are the people there the same as they are in America?” 

And the answer is “Yes.” 

Everywhere I go around the world, from South Africa to Northern Ireland, people are the same. What they want is the same. They would like to be employed. They’d like to have something to do. 

They’d like to have a way to earn their way. They’d like to make a good living. They’d like to supply incredible values for their family, and plan for the future—not only for the next generation but the next generation after. They’d like to make a contribution to the community and to their country. They’d like to be valuable in more than one respect. They’d like to be good parents. They’d like to leave a legacy. The list is the same whether you go to Siberia or to Australia. 

It doesn’t make any difference. We all have those kinds of ambitions. 

In some countries, of course, the opportunity to do so is a lot better than in other countries that are struggling with just survival, let alone succeeding. 

You should sharpen your interest and keep a journal of your impressions when you visit another city or when you visit another region. I go to Australia and if it’s raining they say, “Bring your brelly.” 

That means umbrella. They’ve got all these unique words. So when you go to Australia, when you go to other countries, you pick up on this because it’s interesting. It’s interesting conversation, and if you know a little about this, it’s fascinating. The key is to just sharpen your interest in life and people, and region and country, and nation and ceremonies, and style and expressions, and all that. 

You just pick up all of that flavor and the style and the language and the idiosyncrasies of wherever you go. You pick all that up as preparation so that your conversation will be more interesting to someone else. And you can flavor it with the color of your experiences of where you’ve been and what you’ve seen and what you’ve heard. 

**2. Fascination**

Go from interested to fascinated. Interested people want to know, does it work? Fascinated people want to know, how does it work? 

What goes on below the surface? I can see that it works, but what makes it work? 

Kids have this extraordinary ability to ask these questions. They can ask a hundred an hour. It’s amazing. It’s because they want to know. 

Their minds are just zinging all the time. Questions about what’s happening and what’s going on and how does it work and why is it this way and how come it works like this? That’s so valuable in preparing to store in your mental bank and your bank of experiences more and more information, more and more experiences, colored and flavored by your own emotional content so that when you get ready to speak, you have something valuable to say. 

Day by day, let life fascinate you. Let life interest you. Substitute fascination in place of frustration. I used to be frustrated, now I’m fascinated. It’s a little trick you just have to play, but I’ve gotten pretty good at it. I’m on the freeway in Los Angeles. My airplane leaves in 35 minutes. The traffic’s moving not one inch. I’m now fascinated. I’m telling you now, it doesn’t work every time. Nothing works every time. 

But every time you can get it to work, let something fascinate you instead of frustrate you. Be curious how life works. That’s how you gather more from your life experiences and prepare for good communication. 

**3. Sensitivity**

The next word, and this is an important word in preparing for communication, is *sensitivity*. Try to put yourself in someone else’s shoes. Try to feel what they feel. Try to hurt like they hurt. Have sympathy and compassion. 

Sensitivity is trying to understand where someone might be at the moment. The reason that they’re angry may not be obvious. Maybe the IRS just knocked on their door a couple days ago. That’s why they’re upset. You can’t just go by what’s obvious because there might be some reasons behind the reasons. So you’ve got to learn to be a little more sympathetic, a little more understanding. This is

vitally important. Sometimes it’s difficult, unless you are like that person, to sympathize or to have sensitivity. But here’s what you must do: You must try. People know when you try. 

I go to Mexico and try to speak a little Spanish. I listen to music on this great Spanish station in Los Angeles. If you just try to understand, try to speak a few words, it goes such a long way in identifying with people, in building a bridge of understanding and getting something started toward good communications. 

**4. Knowledge**

So we’ve got interest, we’ve got fascination, and we’ve got sensitivity. Here’s one more word: *knowledge*. You just have to know. 

Collect knowledge in your journal, from your ongoing education. Fill up your mental and spiritual and emotional bank so that it becomes like an unending reservoir to draw from. That begins to help you prepare. Do your research. Gather up stories. Keep the flow of knowledge going into your journal, as well as into your head and into your heart. 

**THE FUNDAMENTALS OF EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION**

Our very success is heavily dependent upon our ability to communicate. This is not just for professional speakers. From schoolchildren to grandparents, everyone should work on improving their communication skills so they can improve their lives. Improving your ability to communicate will be one of the most important things you ever do. 

One of the easiest ways to improve your communication is to start by solidifying your base, so to speak, by working on and improving the fundamentals. Here are a few areas that everyone should know and master. 

**COMMUNICATION IS POWERFUL**

There is a proverb in the Bible that says, “The tongue has the power of life and death.” This is true. What a person says can build people up or tear them down. The ability to communicate is a powerful responsibility. Whole nations have been inspired to action because of a single individual’s passionate words. On the other hand, countless millions of children have been deeply hurt because of the derogatory words spoken to them by their parents. You have within you the incredible power of communication. You can create tremendous things in your life if you take communication seriously and use its power to help others and yourself. Combining this knowledge with a heart set on doing good is the first step in unleashing this incredible force. 

**COMMUNICATION MUST BE PURPOSEFUL**

In order to be effective, your communication should be on purpose. 

Yes, occasionally you may say something off the top of your head and that can hold weight with others, but this is the exception and not the rule. In order to become an effective communicator, you should be very purposeful about your communication. Know what you want to communicate, when you want to communicate and how you want to communicate. Decide what kind of communication will enhance your life and the lives of those around you, and plan your steps for communicating in that way. And then work your plan—know what it is you want to accomplish and how you must communicate in order to do so. 

**WHAT YOU SAY MUST MATCH WHAT YOU DO**

Remember, people watch what you do, not just what you say. What you do always outweighs what you say. If you say one thing and do another, people will follow what you do. If you say something and

back it up with your actions, you will provide the “proof” for people who are listening to you, and they will much more willingly follow your lead. 

**IMPROVE YOUR SPEAKING AND WRITING**

When it comes to communication, these are the “Big Two” that everyone can improve upon: speaking and writing. For every one step that you take to increase your ability to speak and write, you’ll improve your career position two steps. Don’t think that you have to become the best speaker or writer in the world; just set your sights on the next level above where you are now. Once you get there, continue to work to the next level. 

Here are a few tips for becoming a better speaker: Join Toastmasters

Take a college course on public speaking

Give a speech in front of a mirror

Just speak—wherever you can

Here are a few tips for becoming a better writer: Keep a journal

Join a writing club

Have people who are more skilled than you help edit \(and critique\) your letters and emails

Take a college course on writing

Write that book you’ve been thinking about

Becoming a better speaker and writer will be based on three things: doing it, getting feedback and acting on that feedback. 

**LEARN TO LISTEN**

Communication is not one direction—it goes both ways. To become an effective communicator, you must be a good listener. All of the following examples show the power of listening: The parent who listens for the feelings of his or her child The salesperson who listens for what kind of product the client wants

The boss who listens to the concerns of his or her employees Can you see how listening in those situations enables you to become a better communicator? Once you know what your

“audience” wants, you will be able to better communicate to them. 

**SHOW THAT YOU CARE**

Talk with people, not to them. People don’t want you to talk at them. 

They want to communicate. Think about it. The root word is *commune*, which means to live and share together. This is what we do when we communicate together—we share words and ideas. 

This means we must care about the people we are communicating with. We should be interested in their needs and desires. And when we know those, we can communicate more effectively with them. 

**FOCUS ON CLARITY**

The most effective communication is clear communication. Many beginning speakers believe that they should be as verbose as possible—but that’s not what makes them effective. The important principle is clarity. Do they \(the people in your audience\) understand your message? That is the question. If they don’t, then you haven’t communicated. Be as clear and as concise as you can. Never go any longer than it takes to make the communication as clear as it needs to be. And, above all, make sure your audience understands your message when you are finished. 

**COMMUNICATE OVER AND OVER AGAIN**

In order to be effective, communication must be done over and over again. The parent or boss who yells, “How many times must I tell you?” is really just proving again that people need to hear a message many times before they internalize it. That is just the difficult nature of communication. Very rarely will you be able to communicate something just once and have someone or some group walk away with full understanding. It just doesn’t happen that way. You need to do it often and in varied ways. This is what will make your communication most effective. 

**IMPROVE YOUR VOCABULARY, PRONUNCIATION AND**

**SPELLING**

When people hear you or read what you have written, they look for class and style. This can often be noticed through your vocabulary, your pronunciation and your spelling. If you want to be more effective, focus on improving in these areas. Our vocabulary directly affects the way we both view and interpret the world around us. If we have a small vocabulary, it limits our ability to define or communicate what we see, feel and hear. The larger the vocabulary, the better our ability to relate. What size is your view—a peephole or a huge, clear

window showing the great expanse of this amazing, wonderful world we live in? 

**THE BASICS OF BUSINESS COMMUNICATION**

The goals of business relationships differ from the goals of personal relationships, although they do entail utilizing some of the same interpersonal skills. 

The goals of business relationships are the following: **1. **Build positive working relationships that allow us to work together for profitable, win/win business dealings

**2. **Enhance the value of work production **3. **Create win-win, mutually satisfying business opportunities **4. **Produce a profit while providing the marketplace with value through our goods and services

So, if the above are the goals of business relationships, then the goal of our business communications should support the overarching goal of the business relationship. 

Here are four qualifying questions that will help form guidelines necessary to accomplish this:

**1. **Does our business communication support positive working relationships? 

**2. **Does our business communication support the value of the other party? 

**3. **Does our business communication support win-win relationships? 

**4. **Does our business communication support profit-making ventures and value to the marketplace? 

In our communication with people \(our employees, vendors, clients\), our constant goal should be to uphold those basic values, in all aspects. It’s easy to do this with a client who has just made a large purchase. It’s far more difficult, but equally important, when we’re working with someone challenging. The idea is to be so in tune with our goals that it affects how we communicate with those with whom we do business. 

**FIVE FORMS OF BUSINESS COMMUNICATION**

Now I want to talk a bit about different kinds of communication and some tips to improving your skills. 

There are five basic forms of communication in business today. 

**1. In Person: One-on-One**

One-on-one meetings are very effective if done properly. The obvious downside is the limitation of time, especially if you have numerous people you need to meet with. 

Here are some ideas to make your one-on-one meetings more effective:

**Brief the person you are meeting with beforehand on the** **topic. ** This defines the basic expectations of the purpose of the meeting and maximizes the time you have. More will be accomplished, and it prevents the possibility of having to schedule a follow-up meeting. 

**Be on time and end on time. **This is paramount and communicates that you value the other person’s time. 

**Meet in an appropriate setting. **Sometimes a coffee shop may be appropriate. Other times you will need to be in a meeting room. Take into account who the other person is, what you are hoping to accomplish and how much time you have. Is the meeting place conducive to communication? Be sure your chosen location enhances, not detracts, so that the possibility of missed communication is greatly reduced or eliminated. 

**Practice good communication skills. **Listening skills, speaking clearly, etc., are vital skills you need to put into practice here. 

**Sum up. **At the end of the meeting, take a moment to sum up what you think you have heard and what you have attempted to communicate. 

**Follow up. **This can be done with an email, a note card or phone call. Again, sum up what you spoke about and be sure to thank them for their time and the opportunity to meet with them. 

**2. In Person: Group Meetings**

Brief the group beforehand on the topic. Just as with one-on-one settings, this creates expectations, enables everyone to be prepared and will maximize everyone’s time. 

**Again, start on time and end on time. **A dual purpose is accomplished here—this communicates that you value their time and it says that no one person is more important than the group. 

**Appoint a note taker. **One person should be in charge of putting the information on a whiteboard or AV screen while the meeting is in progress. This is an improvement over the traditional way of someone taking notes on paper because the meeting participants can see how the topics are being recorded and can immediately make corrections if there is misinterpretation. 

**Give everyone an opportunity to participate. **Be diligent in keeping one or two people from dominating the meeting. Make sure you ask for the input of everyone. If they are valued enough to be invited to the meeting, their views are important. 

**Stay on task. **The biggest time-waster of meetings is the proverbial “rabbit trail.” As the leader, or even if you’re just attending the meeting, you should be willing, when the topic veers off course, to encourage the group to get back to the purpose of the meeting. 

**3. The Phone**

The phone has wonderful applications for communication. There are some roadblocks with the proliferation of voice mail, but the phone still remains a great tool for communication. 

Here are some tips for making the phone work for your business communication. 

**Use it to keep in touch. **The great thing about a phone is you can pick it up, dial and be connected with someone in just moments. Use the phone to stay in regular communication with your business contacts. A quick call to see how they are doing or to ask how you might be of help to them will not only bring you business but also raise your profile in their mind as a person who provides great customer service and follow-up. 

**Schedule times for phone meetings. **Sometimes, just picking up the phone is ineffective because the person you’re trying to reach will not be able to talk at that time. If they aren’t available right then, take just a second and set up a time to speak with them. Ask them to schedule a time to speak by phone and then record it in your calendar or planner. The longer the time you need, the more advance notice you’ll need to give them. 

**Know what you’re calling for. **In personal relationships, people are much more willing to sit around and “shoot the breeze,” but not so much in business relationships. “Time is money,” as the

old saying goes. Instead, with business relationships, we should tell the person we’ll be speaking with what the topic will be and what we hope to accomplish. This should be done beforehand. 

Then stick to the topic and don’t digress. 

**Don’t take too much time. **The phone can also become a real time waster for both you and the people you speak with if you’re not careful. If you know what you want to accomplish and discipline yourself to stick to the agenda, you’ll be able to limit your time and be very efficient with the use of the phone. 

**4. Written Communications**

The written word is still very effective for communication. It can be more powerful than the spoken word in some instances because it can be edited before being released. In addition, it can be referred to again. 

Some tips for written communications:

**Keep it simple. **Obviously there are some communications that need to be long and complex—elaborate contracts, for example

—but for the most part, our business communications should be very pragmatic. That is, they should simply get the job done; there’s no need for trying to be too eloquent. 

**Use various forms to keep interest alive. **A memo, a note card, a letter and email all are different methods that’ll entice the reader to read. Varying methods can help our message be communicated better. 

**5. The Speech**

At times, you’ll be called upon to speak to an audience. This can be a powerful form of communication that’ll help build your business and your relationships. 

**COMMUNICATION TOOLS**

Some people use the phrase “the art of communication,” and I like that phrase. Communicating is an art. When we’re attempting to get our message out to others, it’s as though we start with a giant blank canvas and we then begin to paint a picture—any picture we desire. 

Now, most people assume that when painting a picture they have only a few basic brushes at their disposal. But the advanced artist knows there are many tools available to create their masterpiece, and they use each to their advantage. 

The same is true with communication. There are many tools available to you as you communicate; you just have to be aware of them and then use them purposefully. The better you become at using these tools, the better you’ll be at communicating. 

The two primary categories these tools fall into are verbal and nonverbal. Let’s look at the different ways you can use each of these categories to improve your ability to communicate. 

**VERBAL COMMUNICATION**

***Your words. ***** **It’s been said that people judge you by the words you use, and this is true. Choose your words wisely. Words have power. 

They have the power to move nations and they have the power to destroy as well. When you speak, use words carefully. 

Here are a few things to consider in regard to your words. 

Avoid using words that will cause the other person to think poorly of you. Slang is one example. Another is, of course, slurs of any type. Use words that communicate positive values. Use optimistic words, words of strength. Make sure they are understandable. 

Use words that are colorful and rich with meaning, as long as they can be understood by the listener. 

***Your vocabulary. ***** **An expanded vocabulary will set you apart. It enhances the communication process and draws others in. 

Your vocabulary can reveal to others how educated you are, and others may make judgments about you that can affect your opportunities with them. The best communicators will use an expanded vocabulary with more educated groups and a more basic vocabulary with less-educated groups. 

**HOW YOU SAY IT MATTERS**

Just as important as what you say is how you say it. What tone are you using? When you speak, are you monotone? Or do you move the tone of your voice, changing it up? This will naturally help people follow what you’re saying. Changing the tone of your voice is a very effective way to draw people into your message. Imagine if a painter only used one color. We want lots of color and lots of tone. 

Along with the words you use and your tone, consider your pace. 

Sometimes when you speak you may need to go slowly, and sometimes you may need to go very fast. The speed with which you speak will tell others certain things. A fast pace will communicate that you’re excited about something. A slow pace usually communicates thoughtfulness or that you really want them to hear your point. 

Choosing your pace is also like using your volume in an effective way. Master communicators will draw their audience in by fluctuating their voice from very loud to a near whisper. The audience doesn’t even know that the speaker is taking them on a roller-coaster ride of communication. There are lessons to be learned here. Even in a

one-on-one conversation, we can shift and change volume, keeping our communication more effective. 

**EMOTION**

The emotions you communicate while speaking are vital. The key here is to show emotion without “getting emotional.” Emotions can be a very effective communicator. For example, showing anger can communicate that you are very serious about something \(as long as you don’t get angry often\). Allowing yourself to cry can show a side of you to others that communicates that you are a person of passion who, while being a hard-charging person who desires success, also has a tender side. Allowing yourself to laugh will communicate that you have a fun side and do not take yourself too seriously. Emotion, if controlled, is a powerful communicator. 

**ENUNCIATION**

Do you speak clearly so people can understand you? Enunciation is an often-overlooked key to effective communication. It’s imperative to clearly enunciate our words so that people understand us. Clear enunciation gives us a little “punch” to our communication. Work on enunciating your words clearly. The key is to get it just right—

enunciating so that your words don’t run together but not over-enunciating so that you sound unnatural. 

In all of these principles, the idea is variety. Any time we communicate in a single way, we become predictable and people stop listening. Think of yourself. Do you like to listen to people who speak at one speed, in one tone, with a boring vocabulary and without emotion? Of course not\! Then we should make every effort to be colorful and effective communicators. And we can be—if we work at it and practice, practice, practice\! 

**NONVERBAL COMMUNICATION**

What you say affects how you communicate, certainly, but just as important is what you don’t say. Yes, your nonverbal communication has a major impact on how well you communicate. 

Have you ever given much thought to how you communicate nonverbally? Here are some thoughts on ways to use nonverbal communication to support what you’re saying verbally. 

**Use your hands. **Keeping your hands by your side will make you seem stiff and uncomfortable. Instead, use your hands to communicate. Now, don’t get too demonstrative to the point where people are wondering where your hands are going next. 

One way to see what you do nonverbally is to tape yourself speaking. Watch what you do with your hands. 

**Use your eyes. **The eyes can be a very powerful tool in communication. You know the old saying, “The eyes are the window into the soul.” It’s true. Think of what a mother communicates to her newborn when she gazes into their eyes, or what a husband and a wife say without words when they look into each other’s eyes. The eyes speak volumes. 

Have you spoken with someone who is constantly looking around? 

What does that communicate? A lack of interest in what you have to say. 

When you speak to someone, look at them. Give them your attention with your eyes. Listen to them with your eyes. Communicate with them that they are important. 

**Your arms. **Some people don’t even realize when they’re

“closed off” to someone else by crossing their arms when the other person is speaking. Those who study this tell us that

crossing the arms is a surefire way to close yourself off from the other person. It communicates closure, fear and opposition. 

**Speaking position. **When you’re communicating, especially in a presentation situation, your speaking position, whether you are standing, sitting, kneeling, etc., can communicate a lot. 

For example, my good friend Zig Ziglar, a master of the stage, will frequently move to the front of the stage and kneel. What is he nonverbally communicating? He is saying, “Listen closely to this. 

This is really important.” He is bringing the audience in for an

“intimate moment.” Even in a room with 1,000 people, this way of communicating can make every individual feel like Zig is speaking closely to just them. 

Sitting communicates casualness. I know many speakers will give a considerable part of their presentation this way. John C. Maxwell, another friend of mine, and a world-class leadership expert, gives quite a bit of his speeches while sitting. His style is informative and casual—and it is effective. 

**OTHER NONVERBAL CONSIDERATIONS**

There are other little things to be aware of in nonverbal communications. Nodding your head says, “I’m listening.” Tapping your foot or jiggling your leg says, “I’m bored, nervous or impatient.” 

Everything we do with our bodies communicates, whether we’re speaking or listening. 

As a person who desires to take their communication to the next level, you should be aware of what you communicate nonverbally as well as verbally. As you begin to master both, you’ll begin to communicate with a higher and higher level of excellence. 

**SEVEN ESSENTIALS FOR POWERFUL AND EFFECTIVE**

**PRESENTATIONS**

Follow these seven rules, and you will begin to see greater effectiveness in your presentations. 

**1. Know your goal**

Are you there to inspire? Encourage? Challenge? Comfort? 

Motivate? Deliver bad news? Good news? Is it just informational? 

Are you trying to motivate them to action? If you know where you’re going and where you want to take the audience, you can then work back from there and create your presentation. Like Stephen Covey’s old axiom, “Begin with the end in mind,” be sure to know your goal. 

**2. Keep it simple**

Be yourself—you don’t have to be someone else. One mistake many people make is in trying to emulate the style of another person. This rarely, if ever, works. Why? Because you’re not that person\! Be yourself. That is who others are expecting. 

Don’t attempt elaborate presentations. Maybe when you’ve mastered your skills, you can get elaborate. But even the most polished professional speakers rarely get elaborate. The Zig Ziglars, Brian Tracys and Nido Qubeins of the world—the crème de la crème—are straight-ahead, no-fancy-stuff speakers. Take note of that. You can be simple and very good at the same time. So be sure to keep it simple. 

**3. Be passionate and optimistic about your topic** People want to see that you are passionate about your topic. 

Aristotle said that there are three areas integral to persuasion: logic, ethics and passion. You need to be a person of good character, have logical reasoning and say it with passion. 

Also, be optimistic. Napoleon said, “Leaders are dealers in hope.” As presenters, we pull people in and bring them along by giving them hope. Be sure to let your passion and optimism come through. 

**4. Balance the format of your information** Use facts, figures and stories. Include lecture as well as audience participation. In this day and age, with waning attention spans, we do well to change up the format on regular intervals. People are used to modern media, which makes single-person speaking a tough act. Be sure to use different formats in your presentation. 

**5. Tell stories**

When you think of Jesus, the greatest teacher of all time, you think of a man who told stories to help root the principles into the minds and hearts of those who heard him. Stories are things that people can connect with. They can remember them. They see them in pictures. What would you be most apt to remember two weeks after hearing a speaker: the exact percentages of his or her statistics, or a well-told story? Be sure to build stories into your presentation so people remember the points you want them to. 

**6. Know your material**

This is the foundation of an effective presentation. It tells people you’re serious about the topic, that you care about it and that you’re qualified to speak to them about it. Do whatever you can to know your material inside and out before you get on the stage to present. 

You’ll feel more comfortable and will come across as very credible. 

Audiences are looking for credibility and can see through someone who is winging their way through a presentation. Be sure to know your material. 

**7. Start on time and end on time**

One of the skills of an effective presenter is that they can craft their presentation to fit the allotted time and then discipline themselves to stay within that time frame. Starting on time and ending on time will show people that you respect their time. 

Too often, a speaker will do a fine job in their allotted time, and if they were to end there, they would be remembered well. 

Unfortunately, they go overtime, and all the audience can think is, “I can’t believe they went so long\!” These speakers shoot themselves

in the foot by not finishing on time. Be sure to always stay within your time limits and leave your audience wanting more. 

I believe that everyone can become a better speaker and presenter if they practice their skill. And it doesn’t require a tremendous amount of advanced training, either. Just mastering the basics will take you to the next level and allow you to become a much more effective communicator. 

